<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/lucknow/aftershocks-jolt-parts-of-up-toll-14/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Aftershocks jolt parts of UP, toll 14
</headline>

<text>
Locals offer prayers after fresh tremors were felt, in Lucknow on Sunday. (Source: Express Photo by Pramod Adhikari)

Fresh tremors of low magnitude Sunday afternoon twice jolted parts of Uttar Pradesh where the toll from Saturday’s earthquake in Nepal mounted to 14 with injuries to 45 others, prompting Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav to close all schools for the next two days as a precautionary measure.

Bouts of aftershocks were felt around 12.45 pm for around 20 seconds in different parts of the state, creating panic that led people to rush to open places. Another tremor of very low intensity was felt after few minutes. There was, however, no immediate report of any casualty or damage to property.

UP Met Director J P Gupta said such aftershocks may continue for the next few days.

According to a report sent by the DGP office, while three persons have died in Gorakhpur, two each have died in Barabanki and Sant Kabir Nagar Nagar, and one each in Shrawasti, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur Nagar, Badaun, Kushi Nagar, Balrampur and Ambedkar Nagar. Of those killed, six are children.

At the time when the fresh tremors were felt Sunday, Governor Ram Naik was addressing an event in Kushi Nagar district. Governor wrapped up his programme midway, with security personnel rushing him to the helipad from where he took off safely.

In view of the large-scale devastation in Nepal, the state government Sunday sent a 47-member team comprising 23 doctors, 8 technicians and 16 paramedical staff from the King George Medical University (KGMU) to Nepal along with relief material for those affected. Nepal government has appealed to the UP government to provide more trucks and buses for the rescue operation.

On the request of the Central government, the state government has sent 20 buses to Nepal to evacuate the Indians stranded there. A senior official said that the government has been informed by the Centre that around 1,500 Indians are stranded in Nepal and buses are the only means through which then can be evacuated.

A decision was taken by the state government on Saturday to send 10 trucks of mineral water, 10 trucks of biscuits and one truck of medicines for the victims. The trucks left for Nepal Sunday morning.

UP Chief Secretary Alok Ranjan said five ambulances, too, have been sent to Nepal and relief camps have been set up at Nepal-bordering districts including Maharajganj, Lakhimpur, Shrawasti, Gorakhpur, Siddharth Nagar to provide food and other medical help to people of Indian origin returning from earthquake-affected areas in Nepal. Chief Secretary said that B R D Medical College, Gorakhpur, has been put on high alert. Chief Secretary also said there were so far no reports of any person of UP gone missing in Nepal.

Akhilesh announced an additional remuneration of Rs 500 to buses and ambulances involved in relief work. He has already announced a financial assistance of Rs 7 lakh to the kin of those killed in the earthquake, Rs 50,000 to those grievously injured and Rs 20,000 to those with minor injuries.

The CM spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprised him of the situation in UP, an official spokesman said.

A 24-hour control room has been set up at UP Disaster Management Department in Lucknow to provide all help and information round-the-clock. The numbers are 0522-4015703 and 0522-4915723.

The state government has decided to sent 50 buses to Nepal for evacuation of the people stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav said that 25 buses moved to Nepal on Sunday while other 25 will leave for Nepal on Monday.

Video of the day

For all the latest Cities News, download Indian Express App
</text>