<url>
http://www.colombopage.com/archive_15A/Apr26_1430015042CH.php
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Sri Lanka : Nepal Earthquake: Sri Lanka dispatches emergency relief assistance to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Leading News from Sri Lanka::

* Nepal Earthquake: Sri Lanka dispatches emergency relief assistance to Nepal

Sun, Apr 26, 2015, 07:54 am SL Time, ColomboPage News Desk, Sri Lanka.

Apr 26, Colombo: Sri Lanka Saturday expressed condolences to the Government and people of Nepal and dispatched a medical team as a first step of emergency relief assistance.

"The Government and the people of Sri Lanka is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of lives and extensive damage to property caused by the earthquake which occurred this (25th April) morning in Nepal and extends sincere condolences to the Government and people of Nepal particularly the families of the bereaved, and, wish a speedy recovery to those injured by this calamity," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

The 7.8 magnitude quake that struck an area of central Nepal between the capital, Kathmandu, and the city of Pokhara on Saturday morning has killed 1,805 people and injured 4,718 people, according to the latest Nepal Home Ministry figures.

The Foreign Affairs Ministry said as a gesture of solidarity towards the friendly people of Nepal, the Government of Sri Lanka will dispatch Emergency Relief Assistance to Nepal Saturday night.

As a first step, Sri Lanka Air Force C 130 Aircraft will carry a Medical Team consisting of Doctors from the Military and the Health Ministry including surgeons, anesthetists, nurses and relief assistance contingent and equipment including tents, generators, communication, excavating and other equipment.

Further assistance would be considered after a needs assessment in Nepal, the Ministry said.

The dispatch of an Emergency Relief Assistance follows a special coordination meeting held this afternoon at the Presidential Secretariat.

Minister of Health, Minister of Disaster Management, Secretary to the President, Secretary to the Prime Minister, Secretary Defence, Secretary Foreign Affairs, the Service Commanders and the Inspector General of Police together with Senior officials of the Ministries of Health, Disaster Management, Foreign Affairs and other key Ministries attended the meeting. The Charge d' Affaires of Nepal in Sri Lanka who was also present at the meeting briefed on the evolving situation in Nepal.

Sri Lanka's Ambassador in Nepal Mr. W.M. Senevirathna has ascertained the safety and welfare of the Sri Lankans in Nepal and has informed that the 120 Sri Lankan students at the Manipal University in Pokhara and around 20 Sri Lankans in Kathmandu are safe.

"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy in Nepal will continue to monitor the situation in relation to the Sri Lankans in Nepal and any further assistance to be extended to Nepal," the Ministry assured.
</text>