<url>
http://www.ocregister.com/articles/katherine-659449-grothe-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
San Clemente woman in Nepal: ‘There was a lot of commotion and screaming and wailing outside’
</headline>

<text>
A Peace Corps volunteer from Orange County was one of the survivors of the deadly earthquake that struck and killed more than 1,100 people in Nepal on Saturday.

Krysla Sita Grothe, 28, of San Clemente, is resting at the U.S. Embassy in Nepal’s capitol of Kathmandu. She said she is frightened, but otherwise okay.

She was with two other Peace Corps volunteers on the top floor of the Pacific Guest House motel in the Lainchaur neighborhood of Kathmandu when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit just outside of where they were staying.

“We were relaxing when the earthquake hit rather suddenly and intensely,” Grothe said through text messaging. Internet and phone line services were down in the area.

“We all ran to the bathroom door frame,” she said. “I fell along the way and have some bruises on my leg but other than that, we were not injured.”

She said the earthquake lasted for about 10 to 12 minutes with “rolling aftershocks, which were also intense.”

“There was a lot of commotion and screaming and wailing outside, which panicked us more,” she wrote.

According to reports, the earthquake struck before noon local time, causing massive destruction that cracked opened streets, razed homes, neighborhoods, and hundred-year-old temples; even triggering landslides at nearby Mount Everest. The earthquake was felt as far as India and Bangladesh.

Thousands of people ran out of their home fearing walls would crash down on them. The death toll is expected to rise, as more reports come in, authorities said.





See photos of the destruction here

For the past 20 months, Grothe has been living with a host family in Kalyan, a village in the Surkhet district.

Grothe graduated from San Clemente High School and attended Saddleback College, receiving a degree in agriculture specializing in rural communities at UC Davis, said Grothe’s mother, Katherine Wilson.

Grothe is the oldest daughter of Katherine and Duncan Wilson, a San Clemente high school teacher.

In Nepal, she’s helping build organic sustainable farms, and developing co-op feed banks with local farmers, Katherine said.

Katherine said her daughter has helped her host family earn extra income by constructing a mushroom farm.

“She’s very dedicated to her host family and the Peace Corps,” Katherine said. “They are really a close knit community.”

Katherine said she and her husband just recently came back from Nepal. The same places where they had visited are now in ruins.

“We are devastated that this happened,” she said. “All of the temples and roads where we walked through have just been leveled.”

Katherine is unsure of whether her daughter will remain in Nepal to help with disaster relief or fly home.

Register follow-up text messages to Grothe went unreturned.

“She’s had an emotional day,” Katherine said. “We are just praying that everybody is safe and for their well-being.”

Contact the writer: 714-704-3764 or jpimentel@ocregister.com
</text>