<url>
http://www.smh.com.au/world/nepal-quake-death-toll-climbs-to-1200-triggers-everest-avalanche-20150426-1mta8i.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake death toll climbs to 1200, triggers Everest avalanche
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu: A massive earthquake has killed more than 1200 people as it tore through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering a deadly avalanche at the Everest base camp.

Officials said at least 1170 people were known to have died in Nepal.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link A taxi is buried under debris from a collapsed building after an earthquake in Nepal that has claimed at least 1200 lives. Photo: Getty

It was the quake-prone Himalayan nation's worst disaster in more than 80 years.

However, the final toll from Saturday's magnitude-7.8 quake could be much higher, and dozens more people were reported killed in neighbouring India and China.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Volunteers carry the body of an earthquake victim on a stretcher after buildings collapsed in in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: AP

Emergency workers fanned out across the Himalayan nation to rescue those trapped under collapsed homes, buildings and other debris.

Fears are held for three Australians listed as missing in Nepal. They are Perth woman Ballantyne Forder, who was volunteering at a local orphanage, a 59-year-old woman and an 18-year-old man, both from Melbourne.

Advertisement

Offers of help poured in from governments around the world, with the United States announcing it was sending in a disaster response team.

"Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west. All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need," Nepal police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam told AFP.

Officials said 10 people were killed when an avalanche buried parts of Mount Everest's base camp in Nepal.

Hundreds of mountaineers had gathered at the camp for the start of the annual climbing season.

"We don't have the details yet, but 10 have been reported dead so far, including foreign climbers," Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal's Tourism Department, said.

"We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff."

Experienced mountaineers said panic erupted at the base camp which had been "severely damaged".

"Huge disaster. Helped, searched and rescued victims through huge debris area. Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap," Romanian climber Alex Gavan tweeted from base camp.

However, the worst damage was in Kathmandu, where the historic nine-storey Dharahara​ tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings brought down.

At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th century tower, said an AFP photographer, who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties throughout the city.

"It was difficult to breathe, but I slowly moved the debris. Someone then pulled me out. I don't know where my friends are," Dharmu Subedi, 36, who was standing outside the tower when it collapsed, said from a hospital bed.

At least 42 people were known to have died in India, including 30 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the Indian capital, New Delhi, had to be evacuated.

Meanwhile, China's official Xinhua news agency said 13 people were killed in the Tibet region.

The United States Geological Survey said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres north-west of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT (1611 AEST).

Tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake.

The US Geological Survey initially measured the quake at magnitude-7.5 and later adjusted it to magnitude-7.8, at a depth of 15 kilometres.
</text>