<url>
http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2015/04/28/1448693/phl-condoles-nepal-death-toll-hits-3700
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Phl condoles as Nepal death toll hits 3,700
</headline>

<text>
MANILA, Philippines - Tens of thousands of Nepalese huddled in tents desperate for help yesterday, two days after a quake killed more than 3,700 people, making it the quake-prone Himalayan nation’s deadliest disaster in more than 80 years.

Foreign rescue teams equipped with heavy cutting gear and relief supplies were landing round the clock at Nepal’s only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu, which has been devastated by Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake.

Families, the sick and elderly packed into parks and other open spaces in Kathmandu after losing their houses, with others too terrified of aftershocks to return home.

A government official said tons of clean water and other essential supplies are needed for the survivors as well as stepped up search and rescue efforts outside the capital in areas closer to the epicenter of the quake.

“We need more helicopters for our rescue operations in rural areas,” said Nepal Home Affairs spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal.

Saturday’s earthquake also killed around 90 people in neighboring countries, including at least 67 in India and 20 in China.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

It also triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest, the world’s highest mountain, which buried part of the base camp and killed at least 18 people.

Solidarity

President Aquino expressed the Filipino people’s solidarity with the Nepalese and assured them of assistance.

In a statement issued yesterday, Aquino said a team from the Philippine embassy in New Delhi, India would travel to Nepal to meet the needs of Filipinos affected by the earthquake.

“More than this, the Philippine government will be communicating with our counterparts in Nepal to offer assistance. We are prepared, and consequently taking steps, to render aid to the maximum of our limitations,” the President said.

Speaking at the plenary session of the 26th Association of the Southeast Asian Nations summit in Malaysia, Aquino joined other ASEAN leaders in extending sympathy and support for the alleviation of the unfolding humanitarian crisis in the Himalayas.

“Time and again, the world has come together to render assistance in times of dire need: Filipinos from all walks of life have likewise expressed sympathy and offered prayers for the Nepalese people. Nations of goodwill have already pledged aid in all forms, as Nepal engages in the work of rescue and recovery,” he said.

“In this time of great loss, Nepal is not alone. We are confident that, with the help of the entire world, they will be able to overcome this calamity,” Aquino added.

Likewise, the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) yesterday said the Philippines joins the international community in supporting Nepal’s efforts to recover the survivors, rehabilitate lives and rebuild communities.

The Philippines stands ready to provide humanitarian, financial and other assistance to Nepal, the DFA said in a statement.

Foreign aid

Nepalese rescuers were being joined by hundreds of foreign aid workers from countries such as China, India and the US.

The European Commission released three million euros ($3.25 million) in emergency aid for Nepal, which will help fund clean water, medicine, emergency shelter and telecommunications in the worst affected areas. – Alexis Romero, Marvin Sy, Sheila Crisostomo, Pia Lee-Brago, Aurea Calica
</text>