<url>
http://www.winnipegsun.com/2015/04/26/canada-responds-as-death-toll-from-nepal-quake-climbs-to-2500
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Canada responds as death toll from Nepal quake passes 3,200
</headline>

<text>
The death toll from Saturday's earthquake in Nepal has exceeded 3,200, officials said early Monday.

The 7.9 quake, which also resulted in Mount Everest's worst disaster with at least 17 people killed, was the strongest since 1934 when 8,500 people were killed, Reuters reports.

On Sunday, doctors moved hundreds of patients onto the streets of Nepal's capital Kathmandu when aftershocks rattled hospitals and buildings already damaged. Reuters reported that sick and wounded people lay on a dusty road outside Kathmandu Medical College while hospital workers carried more patients out of the building on stretchers and sacks.

Aid agencies around the world wasted no time appealing for donations to help Nepal. And with Kathmandu's airport reopening Sunday, the first aid flights began arriving with supplies.

David Morley, UNICEF Canada's president, said the agency's field teams "are updating us on the widespread devastation children in Nepal are facing today, horrors no child should have to live through."

UNICEF's Rupa Joshi was in Nepal when the earth shook.

"Last night was a sleepless one for most people in Kathmandu," she wrote in an e-mail. "It was for me. Sleep does not come easily when the earth shakes violently every now and then. Sometimes it starts with a gentle rocking, followed by the strange noises that homes make when an earthquake rolls in. At other times, we feel violent shakes that seem capable of uprooting the house, trees, anything."

The Canadian government pledged $5 million Saturday and said it is sending its Disaster Assistance Response Assessment Team (DART) to the country.

"Our officials in the region are working with Nepalese and Indian authorities to ensure that any Canadians affected by the earthquake are safe and accounted for," Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a statement Saturday.

Canada's assessment team and DART members left from CFB Trenton, Ont., on Sunday night.

Foreign Affairs says it's aware of 388 Canadians in Nepal, but spokesman Diana Khaddaj said that figure is only an estimate as registration is voluntary.

Kali Pokhrel, Nepal's ambassador to Canada, described the earthquake as the worst natural disaster the country has seen in decades.

"This is something we have not experienced in our lifetime," Pokhrel said, who added falling debris killed one of his relatives.

Rahul Singh of GlobalMedic -- a Canadian disaster response charity -- said it too has sent a team from India to Nepal, with a team from Canada on its way over the weekend.

"It's a very big earthquake," Singh said. "We need the public support."

Canadians with friends and family desperately tried to contact loved ones in Nepal on the weekend.

Prasanna Man Shrestha, president of the Calgary Nepalese Community Association, said he spent three long hours trying to get hold of his family.

"The mobile service collapsed there, so it's very hard to get connected ... if you get connected you are very lucky," he said. "It's a nightmare.

"I managed to contact my brother and all my family members are safe, but my home where I grew up is destroyed. Everything is gone. It's very hard to visualize."

Shrestha said social media is proving to be useful, and families are seeing short, quick posts from their loved ones on Twitter and Facebook, saying "I am safe."

If you have Canadian friends or family in the earthquake-affected region, you can call 1-800-387-3124.

-- With files from Reuters
</text>