<url>
http://asiantribune.com/node/86846
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
A Powerful Earthquake Devastated Nepal Killing At Least 1130
</headline>

<text>
Khathmandu, 25 April, (Asiantribune.com):

A powerful earthquake, according to Disaster Management Center (DMC) says that the 7.6 magnitude hit Nepal this morning, causing massive tremors lasting well over a minute across northern India, killing hundreds of people across a swath of four countries as the violently shaking earth collapsed houses, leveled centuries-old temples and triggered avalanches on Mt. Everest. It was the worst temblor to hit the South Asian nation in over 80 years.

The total death toll from the earthquake at the time of posting this news item has risen to 1,130 and at least 634 in the Kathmandu Valley and 300 more in the capital.

The quake caused dozens of buildings in Kathmandu to collapse, including the historic Dharahara Tower.

The city’s main hospital is overwhelmed by casualties and residents are facing a night on the streets with nowhere to go.

Appeal For International Assistance

The country’s deputy Prime Minister, Bamdev Gautam, has declared a state of emergency and appealed for humanitarian assistance across the region.

The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.

Another 34 were killed in India, six in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.

A senior mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said at least 8 climbers were killed and 30 injured. Their nationalities were not immediately known.

Tshering of the Nepal Mountaineering Association said the avalanche occurred between the Khumbu Icefall, a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow, and the base camp where most climbing expeditions have their main camps.

In Delhi Tremors Were Felt

In Delhi and parts of India’s National Capital Region, people were seen running out of their houses after buildings shook for well over a minute. However, there are no reports of any damage in Delhi.

The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh.

While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of Nepal best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

Tremors were also felt in Patna, Lucknow, Kolkata, Jaipur, Chandigarh and other cities.

Nearly half an hour after the first tremors, aftershocks were felt again around 12:20 pm across North India.

A senior mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said at least 8 climbres were killed and 30 injured. Their nationalities were not immediately known.

The quake's epicenter was 80 kilometers northwest of Kathmandu

The quake's epicenter was 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, and it had a depth of only 11 kilometers (7 miles), which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries, and witnesses said the trembling and swaying of the earth went on for several minutes.

The U.S. Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 but then lowered it to 7.8. It said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time at Lamjung. It was the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.

The quake -- with the same magnitude as the one that hit San Francisco in 1906 -- was about 16 times more powerful than the 7.0 quake that devastated Haiti in 2010.

A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an 8 magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage.

India, Pakistan Sri Lanka rushes with Emergency assistance

India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage and disaster preparedness in parts of India that felt strong tremors. The Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, which share a border with Nepal, have reported building damage. There have also been reports of damage in the northeastern state of Assam.

Indian prime minister Narendra Modi has also ordered an immediate dispatch of relief and medical teams to Nepal, and the evacuation of Indian tourists.

Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif offered "all possible help" that Nepal may need.

Sri Lanka to fly in medical personal drugs and food aid to earthquake struck Nepal and also evacuate students and other citizens trapped in the country, a government statement said.

A Sri Lanka Air Force aircraft with medical staff drugs and food will leave overnight at 7.00 am, the office of the Prime Minister said.

A civilian SriLankan Airlines aircraft with relief workers, emergency supplies and food will also leave for Nepal tomorrow.

The aircraft will bring back Sri Lankan students and others from Nepal.

UK foreign secretary Philip Hammond said the government was in close contact with the Nepal and the British Embassy in the country is offering assistance to the authorities and British Nationals.

- Asian Tribune -
</text>