<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-26/nepal-earthquake-kills-over-1300/6422194
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake collapses buildings in Kathmandu and northern India killing more than 2,200
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake collapses buildings in Kathmandu and northern India killing more than 2,200

Updated

Rescuers in Nepal are searching frantically for survivors of a huge quake that killed more than 2,200 people, digging through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu and airlifting victims of an avalanche at Everest base camp.

Terrified residents of Kathmandu were woken by fresh aftershocks in the worst disaster to hit the impoverished Himalayan nation in more than 80 years, with many forced to spend the night trying to sleep out on the streets and open ground in makeshift tents.

Hospitals were so stretched that medics had set up tents outside the buildings to treat patients.

The historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings brought down, with at least a dozen bodies taken away from the ruins of the 19th century tower.

Dharmu Subedi, 36, was standing outside the tower when it collapsed.

"It was difficult to breathe, but I slowly moved the debris. Someone then pulled me out. I don't know where my friends are," said Mr Subedi from a hospital bed.

The tower had been open to visitors for the last 10 years and had a viewing balcony on its eighth floor.

Offers of help poured in from governments around the world, with the United States, European Union and Australia announcing they were sending in disaster response teams. India flew out its stranded citizens in military planes.

National police spokesman Kamal Singh Ban said the number known to have died in Nepal had risen to 1,953.

"We have deployed all our resources for search and rescues," he said.

"Helicopters have been sent to remote areas. We are sifting through the rubble where buildings have collapsed to see if we can find anyone."

Officials said that 17 people were so far known to have died on Mount Everest where an avalanche triggered by the earthquake buried part of base camp.

It is the deadliest disaster in Everest's history and comes almost exactly a year after an avalanche killed 16 sherpa guides.

Police put the death toll in Nepal at 2,152, with more than 5,000 hurt. At least 700 were killed in the capital, a city of about 1 million people where many homes are old, poorly built and packed close together.

The overall toll from the quake was expected to be much higher, and at least 49 people have died in neighbouring India.

"We are using all our resources for rescue and to help the displaced," Rameshwor Dangal, who heads Nepal's Himalayan nation's National Disaster Management Division, said.

Chinese state media said 17 people had also been killed in Tibet as Beijing sent a team of 62 rescuers, accompanied by sniffer dogs, to help the hard-pressed emergency workers in Nepal.

The county's mobile phone network was working only sporadically, while large parts of the capital were without electricity.

Friends and family of the dozens of Australians missing in the region have taken to social media to appeal for public assistance.

Sleepless night as aftershocks continue

AFP correspondents in Kathmandu reported that tremors were felt throughout the night, including one strong aftershock at dawn.

For more information: ICRC missing persons list

DFAT: 1300 555 135

DFAT: +61 2 6261 3305 (from overseas)

"It has been a sleepless night, how can we sleep? It has been shaking all night. We are just praying that this will end and we can return home," said Nina Shrestha, a 34-year-old banker who spent the night with hundreds of people on open ground in the capital's Tudhikhel district.

As rescuers sifted through the huge mounds of rubble, the hospitals were overflowing with victims who suffered multiple fractures and trauma.

"We have treated many people since yesterday, majority children," said Samir, a doctor at Nepal's Annapurna Neurological Hospital.

"Most patients have head injuries or fractures. Two of our patients died, two are critical."

Medics were working out of a tent set up in a parking lot because of overflowing patients, while some patients were too scared to stay in the building.

Families had grabbed whatever possessions they could muster and sought shelter on the streets, many of which had been split asunder.

Weather forecasters warned that rain was on the way, with dark clouds looming over Kathmandu that promised more misery for displaced survivors.

Hospitals running out of supplies

The quake, Nepal's worst in 81 years, was more destructive for being shallow, toppling buildings, opening gaping cracks in roads and sending people scurrying into the open as aftershocks rattled their damaged homes.

Kathmandu's Bir Hospital had so far received 300 to 350 patients with serious injuries, and most of them died, said paramedic Dinesh Chaudhary.

He said the hospital was running out of supplies and was procuring medicines from shops outside.

"There will be many more patients coming in tomorrow because only a very small part of the debris has been cleared," he said.

Indian tourist Devyani Pant was in a Kathmandu coffee shop with friends when "suddenly the tables started trembling and paintings on the wall fell on the ground".

"I screamed and rushed outside," she told Reuters by telephone from the capital, where at least 300 people died.

"We are now collecting bodies and rushing the injured to the ambulance.

"We are being forced to pile several bodies one above the other to fit them in."

Siobhan Heanue in Kathmandu In the capital Kathmandu, old temples — many World Heritage-listed and some dating back to the Middle Ages — have been destroyed or damaged.



The three Royal Squares, Patan Bhaktapur and Kathmandu Durbar Squares, suffered significant damage.



In Patan, several temples collapsed, sending thousands of people running for their lives.



The square was packed with tourists and locals out enjoying a Saturday afternoon relaxing on temple stoops and wandering through the historic buildings.



The built-up surrounds of the square left people with few options for safe harbour when the quake hit.



People screamed in terror as the shaking intensified and historic buildings crumbled.



The earthquake, measuring 7.9 in magnitude, lasted for over a minute and was followed by several strong aftershocks.



Locals rushed to clear piles of rubble, searching for survivors with their bare hands, picks and shovels, amid a minimal police presence.



The rescuers sometimes tossed, sometimes gingerly lifted priceless cultural relics from the ruins as they scrambled to unearth any survivors.



At least 12 bodies were pulled from the rubble at Patan Durbar Square with no reports of survivors from under collapsed buildings in the temple complex.



The city of Kathmandu was encircled in clouds of dust, with injured people sitting bandaged in the street and many being stretchered out of buildings by neighbours or dragged from under the rubble of collapsed homes and businesses.



The taxi and bus system disintegrated, leading to an exodus of thousands of people walking through the streets of the capital to get home, many stopping to gawk at destroyed temples and houses.



People converged in open spaces like wide streets and parks as aftershocks continued into the night, huddling amid mounds of concrete and bricks removed from the site of collapsed buildings nearby.



The healthcare and emergency infrastructure of the developing nation already appears severely stretched by the magnitude of this natural disaster.



Compounding the crisis for Nepal, mountaineering season has just begun and many thousands of trekkers in the mountains may not be able to be contacted for days.

ABC reporter Siobhan Heanue was in the old part of the capital, and experienced the quake firsthand.

"At the ancient temple complex near Patan in the south of the city called Durbar Square several temples collapsed to the ground as people fled," she said.

"Shortly after rescue crews swung into action, locals and tourists even have been helping to clear the rubble.

"There were several violent aftershocks and Nepalese people have fled into open squares for safety."

Victorian aid worker Wes Pryor was in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck, but said he had heard of more destruction elsewhere.

"There's reports of landslides blocking roads, whole parts of neighbourhoods being pushed down the valley and very significant casualties in those areas," he said.

"There are reports coming in from further west in Nepal, from Pokhara, where the epicentre of the earthquake was nearby, that there are villages there that are not there any more."

He said people were calm, but expecting more chaos overnight.

"We expect it to rain so people are finding temporary shelter, rushing back into their homes — when it's safe to do so — to get cooking equipment and water, so by and large the city is now pretty stable, people are calm," he said.

"But as we have aftershocks and we see houses move a little bit we anticipate that there might be some more chaos going into the night."

The US Geological Survey said the magnitude-7.9 quake struck 77 kilometres north-west of Kathmandu at lunchtime (local time), with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes.

Strong tremors were felt as far away as New Delhi and other northern cities in India.

At least 34 people were known to have died in India, including 23 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated.

Laxman Singh Rathore, director-general of the Indian Meteorological Department, told reporters that the impact had been felt across large areas of the country.

"The intensity was felt in entire north India. More intense shocks were felt in eastern UP (Uttar Pradesh) and Bihar, equally strong in sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim," he said.

Mr Rathore said that a second tremor of magnitude 6.6 had been recorded around 20 minutes later and centred around the same region.

Indian prime minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet: "We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal".

The earthquake is Nepal's worst since a magnitude-8.3 quake struck the impoverished Himalayan nation in 1934, killing over 8,500 people.

ABC/Wires

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, nepal

First posted
</text>