<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/citizen-led-initiatives/1808566.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Citizen-led initiatives spring up in response to Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Several citizens from around the world are spearheading grassroots initiatives in response to the devastating earthquake which hit Nepal on Saturday (Apr 25).

SINGAPORE: Grassroots initiatives have sprung up in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake to help with relief and recovery efforts in the South Asian nation.

Nepal experienced a powerful 7.8-magnitude earthquake on Saturday (Apr 25) and the latest death toll stands at more than 2,300. Help has poured in for the beleaguered country with aid, as well as search and rescue missions, coming in from the international community. Technology companies have also stepped forward to offer their expertise and help.



There have also been grassroots initiatives – both from within Singapore and the international community – to help alleviate the suffering of those in Nepal.

One of them is Sapphire Gan, who plans to bring in a medical team to render assistance. She has been involved with annual healthcare camps in Nepal since 2006, and said: “Nepal is very special to me.”

On her Facebook page, Ms Gan said that she and Dr Pujan Rai, a Nepalese doctor based in Singapore, have established links with the Nepal Medical College – and have been directed to work in one of the hospitals in Kathmandu. She is calling out to medical nurses to offer their expertise, and is appealing for funds to purchase supplies.

Dear friends,Dr Pujan Rai & I are now coordinating to bring a medical team into Nepal to help render medical aid. We... Posted by Sapphire Gan on Saturday, April 25, 2015





Advertisement

Advertisement

NEPALESE COMMUNITY IN SINGAPORE RALLIES TO OFFER HELP

The Nepalese community in Singapore is also rallying together to offer help. Many members of the Nepalese Society, Singapore gathered for a meeting on Sunday morning to discuss their plans, and the society will work together with the Nepalese government and the relief agencies there.

“We will organise a medical team to go to Nepal within a few days. With the medical team, we will provide medical supplies, emergency needs supplies,” said Mr Kishore Dev Pant, President, Nepalese Society Singapore “We are coordinating with some hospitals in Nepal so that our medical team can go and immediately start working.



"At the same time, we will be raising some funds for the procurement of goods, procurement of medical supplies, maybe blankets, as well as some food and water purification tablets.”

Nepalese Society Appeal



Those who wish to offer their assistance can email the society at nepalesesocietysg@gmail.com. It will send a medical team to Nepal in a few days.

In India, volunteer-driven organisation InCrisisRelief is calling for doctors to help out in the relief efforts across the border.

Elsewhere, some are using one of the many fund-raising sites on the internet for relief and recovery efforts in Nepal. US-based site gofundme has an ongoing appeal for funds.

Simon Vaillancourt, who started the appeal with the aim to raise US$5,000, wrote on the following on the page:


</text>