<url>
http://www.kusi.com/story/28898904/death-toll-continues-to-rise-after-earthquake-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Death toll in Nepal reached 3,200 after earthquake and is expect - KUSI News - San Diego, CA
</headline>

<text>
NEPAL (KUSI) – The death toll continues to rise in Kathmandu, Nepal after the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit the area Saturday afternoon.

The death toll increased from 1,457 to 3,200 Monday (NPT), but the full extent of damage is still unclear.

The number of those injured has reached 6,500.

As the numbers continue to rise, locals are starting to worry about the aftereffects of the quake.

"I'm feeling exhausted but also scared because the tremors have been by the dozens,” Dr. Samaj Gautam told The New York Times. “But the most worrying thing to me is the aftereffect. Sanitation, disease, these are also serious worries.”

UNICEF said its relief workers were watching for waterborne and infectious diseases.

Landslides are making rescue efforts increasingly difficult as many mountain roads are completely impassable.

The region was rocked by aftershocks most of Sunday, one of which measure at a magnitude of 6.7, causing more damage and fear.

The United States Geological Survey said the quake occurred at a depth of 9.3 miles, which is considered shallow and more damaging than a deeper quake.

The epicenter of the quake was less than 50 miles away from Kathmandu, which is home to over 1 million people.

Aftershocks in Tibet buckled roads and collapsed buildings. Twenty deaths have been reported.

Four Chinese citizens in Nepal during the quake have been reported dead as well.

India reported 61 deaths.

The earthquake set of avalanches on Mount Everest, killing at least 18 people.

Dan Fredinburg, a Google executive with ties to Southern California, was among those killed on Mount Everest.

Fredinburg's younger sister posted this message on his Instagram account following the quake:

"This is Dan's little sister Megan. I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it. We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you."

Thomas Nybo, a freelance photographer, told CNN chaos broke out in the streets of Temal, a densely populated tourist hub, as the earthquake hit at noon.

"This region is no stranger to earthquakes," he said. "A lot of people had the same feeling: this is a tremor, it passed. When that wasn't the case, they were in uncharted territory ... It's basically an unwritten book."

Nybo said people and children were trapped under piles of rubble and emergency responders didn't appear in the area until about two hours after the quake.

"A group of mainly tourists started gathering rocks, hammers and pickaxes and breaking through a re-enforced concrete wall to reach this guy ... It took about two hours of smashing through wall and cutting re-bar with a hacksaw to pull him out alive," Nybo said.

Many tourists and residents are sleeping on the streets, despite the dropping temperatures and rainfall. Nybo said many were too scared to go back indoors as aftershocks continued through the night.

On Saturday (local time) Secretary of State John Kerry said the American ambassador to Nepal, Peter W. Bodde, had issued a disaster declaration that would allow $1 million in humanitarian assistance to be available immediately.

The U.N. Embassy in Nepal said American disaster response teams are on their way to Nepal to assist.

The San Diego-based International Relief Team (IRT) is working quickly to send relief aid to the victims of the Nepalese earthquake.

IRT was one of the first responders after the quake and has already ordered a shipment of emergency medicines to Nepal from the Netherlands.

The shipment should be there by mid-next week .

The IRT has provided more than $298 million in 26 years of service to countries affected by natural and other disasters.

Anyone who wishes to help those affected in Nepal is encouraged to contact the Red Cross or the International Relief Teams for ways to donate.
</text>