<url>
http://www.kctv5.com/story/28902289/kansas-citians-offer-prayers-for-victims-of-massive-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Kansas Citians offer prayers for victims of massive Nepal earthq - KCTV5
</headline>

<text>
A Hindu man breaks down during a funeral of Saturday’s earthquake victims on the Pashupatinath bank of Bagmati River, in Kathmandu, Nepal, Sunday, April 26, 2015. (AP Photo/Bernat Armangue)

Governments and aid agencies are rushing doctors, volunteers and equipment to Nepal, a day after the Himalayan country was rocked by an earthquake.

U.N. spokeswoman Orla Fagan, who is heading to Nepal, says 14 international medical teams are on the way along with 14 or 15 international search-and-rescue teams. She says preventing the spread of disease is one of the most important tasks facing the aid workers.

The quake has killed more than 2,500 people, nearly all of them in Nepal.

Hundreds of families gathered Sunday at the Hindu Temple and Cultural Center of Kansas City for a ritual and vigil for those thousands of people who have lost their lives in the earthquake.

Priests at the temple chant the mantras, remembering souls that have departed. The peace keeping ritual is for the Nepal families in the metro and overseas.

"Almost everyone has family back in Nepal and various parts of Nepal," Prakash Neupane said.

Neupane said the communication is slow coming from the devastation following the 7.8 earthquake, but he and all the families in Kansas City have heard from their family in Nepal.

"It is a great relief when I'm able to call and talk to them, but in the back of my mind I worry because when I talked to my brother the neighborhood stores are running out of supplies," Neupane said. "They're still scared to get back in the houses."

UNICEF staff has reported dwindling water supplies, power shortages and communications breakdowns in the stricken areas.

Neupane said he worries about diseases that follow because of all the sanitation challenges to come.

The temple is organizing efforts over the next 24 hours to send help or relief to their Nepalese families. When that has been completely set up, KCTV5 News will have a link in this story.

Click here to find out how you can help Nepal earthquake victims.

The Pentagon says a U.S. military plane has departed from the Dover Air Force Base in Delaware bound for Nepal.

Onboard are 70 personnel, including a U.S. Agency for International Development disaster assistance response team, a Virginia-based search and rescue team and 45 tons of cargo to provide assistance.

The Pentagon says the flight is expected to arrive at Kathmandu on Monday. More than two dozen Defense Department personnel and a transport plane are currently in Nepal on a training exercise. All personnel are accounted for.

Copyright 2015 KCTV (Meredith Corp.) and the Associated Press. All rights reserved.
</text>