<url>
http://www.smh.com.au//world/fears-for-australian-volunteer-believed-to-be-missing-in-nepal-after-earthquake-20150425-1mt9qk.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Fears for Australian volunteer believed to be missing in Nepal after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A Perth woman, who was volunteering at an orphanage in Nepal, is among dozens of Australians missing following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake, which killed more than 1800 people.

The death toll from the quake, the worst to hit the region in 81 years, rose to 1805 on Sunday morning. At least 4700 were injured, according to a home ministry official.

Ballantyne Forder, from Western Australia, was working at an orphanage in Kathmandu and has not been in contact with her family since the earthquake struck.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Australian volunteer Ballantyne Forder is believed to be missing in Nepal after the earthquake.

"Please help find my baby sister. She was working in an orphanage in Nepal," her sister, Amanda-Sue Markham, posted on Twitter.

"Ballantyne Forder now listed as missing in #napal. Where are you baby girl?"

Advertisement

"Now been 9 hours since we last heard from Billie."

The list of Australians missing includes Ms Forder, Sydney man Matthew Graves, 24, photo journalist Athena Zelandonii, 27-year-old Brisbane man Adam Jay Murphy; Dianne Joy Coburn, 59, of Melbourne; Eden Row, 20, of Melbourne; Sydney-born Brisbane woman Samantha McGree, 25; and Taisha-Dayne Reed, 23, of Melbourne.

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link The 22-year-old was unable to contact sooner as she led the children in her orphanage to safety

An Australian born man, 43-year-old Jason Upton, who has been living in the UK is also listed among the missing.

Zachary Sheridan, the younger brother of Packed to the Rafters star Hugh Sheridan is also unaccounted for at Mt Everest.

The 20-year-old last contacted his family on April 22 from Namche Bazar, described as the gateway to Everest.

Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest, I'd appreciate every prayer you have spare x — Hugh Sheridan (@hugh_sheridan) April 25, 2015

Ms Forder's family were waiting anxiously for any information on Sunday morning.

#auspol Please find my baby sister. Missing in Kathmandu pic.twitter.com/DbkKcm1iGO — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 25, 2015

Billie travelled a long way to take care of those children. My guess is she has stayed with them. pic.twitter.com/0rbH0ZEg2q — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 25, 2015

A DFAT spokesman said anyone needing consular assistance could contact DFAT on 1300 555 135 or from overseas on +61 6261 3305.

The Australian embassy was reportedly damaged in the quake.

Fairfax Media journalist Angela Macdonald-Smith was in Thamel, a key tourist area of Kathmandu, when the earthquake struck at around 4pm Australian time.

"Everything is chaos amid rubble in Thamel after earthquake hits Kathmandu," she wrote on Twitter.

"We are waiting outside hotel for advice, people calmer now but each aftershock brings mass hysteria. Still small aftershocks, brick walls swaying in Thamel each time, huge cracks in buildings.

"They are saying go somewhere safe but nowhere feels safe," she said.

Major buildings were reduced to rubble in key tourist spots, including Durbar Square and the ancient religious complex Swayambhunath, also known as the 'Monkey Temple'.

More than a dozen people died at the 19th-century Dharara Tower in the centre of Kathmandu when the tall building collapsed, according to an AFP photographer at the scene.

Aftershocks continued for several hours after the original earthquake, which shook buildings in India and Bangladesh and triggered earthquakes on Mount Everest which buried part of the base camp, killing eight people.

Armed police patrolled the streets, where there were scenes of mass devastation, with temples reduced to rubble, roads cracked and warped, and injured people covered in dust.

The earthquake was centred 77 kilometres north-west of Kathmandu, the US Geological Survey said.

Mountaineer Alex Gavan tweeted from Mount Pumori, about 8 kilometres west of Mount Everest, that the quake had caused an avalanche on Everest.

"Everest base camp huge earthquake then huge avalanche from Pumori. Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain," tweeted Gavan.

Bloomberg, Reuters, AAP, AFP
</text>