<url>
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/painful-vigil-new-yorkers-family-nepal-article-1.2199142
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Painful vigil for New Yorkers with family in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A Queens candlelight vigil drew a somber crowd of more than 200 people, many of them Nepalese, to remember the 2,000 victims killed by a devastating earthquake in their native Nepal.

A bouquet of flowers sat on a table in the middle of the 37th Road in Jackson Heights after a day spent by many checking desperately on relatives back home.

Penpa Lhamo, 27, who moved to the U.S. eight years ago, said her parents were in their home in the capital of Kathmandu when the powerful quake struck.

“They were scared for their lives,” she said. “But there was nothing they could do. I was really scared for them. And helpless. I couldn’t do anything.”

Scenes from Nepal after earthquake

Earlier in the day, restaurant owner Purushotam Khadgi was rolling down the security gate of the Woodside Cafe in Queens when he heard about the catastrophic quake that had hit his homeland.

He immediately tried calling his brother in Kathmandu. “I was afraid,” he said. “I tried to call from 2 a.m. to 6 a.m., the phone didn’t work.”

Khadgi spent a sleepless night watching the news, shocked by images of a devastated Nepal.

Around 200 people, many Nepalese, came to the rememberance for the more than 2,000 people who died in one of the country's worst natural disasters ever. (Gregg Vigliotti for New York Daily News)

“At 8 a.m., I got a call from my brother,” the 51-year-old said. “He said he was OK. Our family is OK, but a lot of people died like two blocks from our home.”

Khadgi, along with his wife Shova and their four sons, left Nepal for New York in 2006 and opened their restaurant on the corner of Broadway and 65th St. three years later.

Customers streamed in and out of the popular restaurant Saturday to order food — and to check on the Khadgis.

Volunteers help remove debris of a building that collapsed at Durbar Square in Kathmandu, Nepal on Saturday. (Niranjan Shrestha/AP)

“They haven’t slept at all,” Prasant Khadgi, 26, said of his parents. “It’s very hard to listen to the news. (Our family) lives near an army camp. They were told they couldn’t stay home because it’s not safe. I have friends who are trying to find out about their own families.”

At the Himalayan Yak, another Nepalese restaurant in Woodside, manager Gyaltsen Gurung, 32, said he’s thankful his family also survived the devastating quake.

“I was trying to keep in contact with family,” he said. “Almost all of them are fine except for the buildings that collapsed near homes.”

But not everyone was as lucky.

“All of my employees are Nepalese,” Gurung said. “My employee’s sister-in-law passed away. I haven’t slept all morning. I have American customers come in and offer their condolences.”
</text>