<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/wires/aap/article-3055383/Australians-missing-Nepal-quake.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
200 safe but many Aussies missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
200 safe but many Aussies missing in Nepal

More than 200 Australians have been confirmed safe but authorities are trying to contact hundreds of others missing after more than 2000 people were killed in a massive earthquake in Nepal.

The government has committed $5 million in aid and a crisis response team will travel to Nepal to look for the unaccounted travellers among the 549 Australians who registered with the foreign affairs department.

There are no reports of Australian deaths following Saturday's 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

But worried family and friends have turned to social media.

Australian actor Hugh Sheridan's brother is missing.

"Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest," Mr Sheridan tweeted.

Mother Deb Williams's Brisbane-based son Jai was due to be at Mount Everest base camp on Saturday with his friend Ben Flanders.

After a nervous wait she was greeted with the news she had been waiting for.

"The boys are safe," she posted on Facebook.

West Australian Ballantyne Paige Forder contacted her family on Sunday after helping move the orphanage where she worked to a field.

Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted on Sunday: "My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety".

Other families are still waiting for information on their loved ones.

Mitch Graves is at home in Sydney waiting for news on the fate of his 24-year-old brother Matthew Graves, who was travelling through Pokhara.

"It's a bit of a struggle trying to communicate to everyone. It is a waiting game at the moment," he said.

The earthquake's epicentre was about 80km northwest of Kathmandu and it is the worst to hit the area in 80 years, World Vision Australia chief Tim Costello said.

"This is a huge disaster," he said on Sunday.

"As the full extent of this enormous tragedy emerges, every minute counts. We must act immediately to save lives and help those who are suffering."

About 200 World Vision staff in Nepal are dispatching emergency supplies, he said.

Red Cross workers on the scene are administering first aid, organising blood supplies for medical centres and providing food, shelter and water.

"It's now a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble, help the injured and support the survivors," Australian Red Cross's Peter Walton said.

"We are very concerned for the safety and wellbeing of thousands of people in Nepal and across the region."

A team from the Fred Hollows Foundation with Australian, Vietnamese, Bangladeshi and Pakistani members was in Nepal when the earthquake struck but all have been confirmed safe.

The government's pledged $5 million aid will be split with $2.5 million going to Australian NGOs, $2 million being sent to support United Nations Partners and $500,000 offered to the Australian Red Cross.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has opened its emergency call unit and updated travel advice for Nepal, warning of disruptions to communication, transport and tourist infrastructure in the country.

Thousands of people are on the streets in Kathmandu where everything remains in the dark with power out, said an ActionAid Australia spokeswoman who had been in contact with colleagues in Nepal.

"Nobody slept," she told AAP.

Hospitals are still operating but thousands of injured people are queuing, waiting for assistance at already-stretched medical centres, she said.

Land slips and damaged infrastructure has also made it difficult to travel to affected communities, she added.

Further information is being sought from ActionAid workers in Nepal.
</text>