<url>
http://inhabitat.com/learn-how-you-can-help-the-victims-of-the-nepal-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Learn how you can help the victims of the Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
The massive 7.8 earthquake that shook Nepal on April 25th in Kathmandu has devastated the region and over 7,000 people dead. A natural disaster like this leaves people, their homes, and cities torn asunder, and tens of thousands of families have been displaced from their homes and have been left out in the cold, as medical facilities and emergency shelters are overwhelmed. Many of us who are safe and far from the quake’s effects wonder how we can help. We’ve compiled a list of organizations you can support to aid the victims of this traumatic event.

Emergency response organizations leapt into action immediately to take care of the injured, manage the structural damage, search for victims, and prepare for the after effects. Many of those organizations rely on donations of both money and time in order to carry out the important work they do.

This is a list of vetted charitable organizations we’ve collected from trusted sources, but is in no way a comprehensive list of the charities doing good work to help in the area. If you’re looking for a way to help, consider these options. Some organizations need only monetary donations, but there are other ways to help, including contributions of goods and time.

AmeriCares is an emergency response and global health organization, and a team from their Mumbai office has already been dispatched to Nepal. You can donate here to help provide medical treatment and supplies to the victims.

CARE International fights poverty around the world, and has had an established presence in Nepal since 1976. They are reportedly partnering with other charities to help as many as 75,000 people in the area affected by the quake. You can support their efforts here.

Direct Relief provides emergency medical care after disasters such as this earthquake. They are centering their efforts on those immediately surround Kathmandu, where the concentration of injuries is the highest and medical centers are overrun with victims. You can donate to their organization here.

Doctors Without Borders specializes in emergency medical response to natural disasters around the globe. So far, they have dispatched eight teams to assist the victims in Nepal. You can donate to provide medical supplies and personnel here.

Oxfam International is a poverty-fighting organization with a long history, and they are already at work providing clean water and hygeine supplies to displaced families in Nepal. Your donation can be made here.

Save the Children is an international NGO devoted to children’s rights and welfare around the globe. They are accepting donations to help the youngest victims of the quake. Ten percent of the money raised will be used to prepare for the next disaster.

Shikshya Foundation Nepal is primarily an education-focused organization, but they are turning their efforts toward humanitarian relief in the aftermath of the quake, helping to connect people with medical attention and provide food and clean drinking water. New York-based relatives with family members in Nepal, many of whom were killed in the disaster, have established this fund to support the rescue and recovery efforts.

International Medical Corp provides communities impacted by disaster with life-saving health care and emergency services, in addition to providing training for ongoing medical care after the disaster relief organizations have left the scene. They have created a fund that will help support emergency response teams so that they can provide much-needed medical care in the areas impacted by the quake.

UNICEF works for the welfare of children around the world, and has said nearly 1 million children will be impacted directly by the effects of this disaster. Your donation to their Nepal fund can help save children now.

To find other worthwhile charitable organizations, we suggest using Charity Navigator and GuideStar, two websites that help educate the public on how non-profit organizations actually spend the money they collect.

+ Inhabitat’s coverage of the earthquake

Images via Shutterstock (1, 2)
</text>