<url>
http://www.dailynews.com/general-news/20150425/southern-californians-rally-to-help-nepal-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Southern Californians rally to help Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
In the wake of Nepal’s deadly earthquake Saturday, Southern California organizations ranging from charities to fire departments scrambled to help any way they could.

The Washington-based humanitarian organization World View, which has offices in Los Angeles and Monrovia, rushed to provide aid to Nepalese victims, as well as ensure the safety of about 200 staff members in the country.

“World Vision is currently working to locate and ensure the safety of its 200 staff and a number of international staff attending a workshop in country this week,” World Vision officials said in a written statement. “Though it’s difficult to get thorough reports because telecommunication are “up and down.” At least 25 staff are now in Hotel Himalaya in Kathmandu as they continue to feel aftershocks through the night.”

The Los Angeles County Fire Department is one of two federally appointed international teams for search and rescue. While the Task Force I of Fairfax, VA, has been deployed, Task Force II in CA — comprised of 77-or-so Los Angeles County Fire Department search and rescue team members — — have been put on standby

From Phyllis Cohn, communications director for American Red Cross Los Angeles Region, said it was no yet clear whether local Red Cross volunteers would be heading to Nepal, as the organization was still assessing how much assistance was needed.

World Vision Country Director for Nepal Liz Satow described the chaos in Kathmandu.

“Buildings and walls across Kathmandu have collapsed although it is hard to tell how serious and extensive the damage is,” she said. “Many people are too frightened to go into the buildings due to fear they will collapse with aftershocks. People are very worried and have for a long time feared the big quake.”

Alina Shrestha, a communications manager with World Vision in Nepal, said she was home with her 5-year-old son when the shaking began.

“We ran outside and everyone was screaming. One wall of my home collapsed,” she reported. “Tonight, 30 people are staying at my home because I have an open space where they feel safe. Many people are afraid of aftershocks and are sleeping outside, but it’s cold here. My children are sleeping in my car to try to stay warm.”

Hospital saw influxes of injured patients, and those in Kathmandu reportedly ran out of wound management kits, World Vision officials said.

“Infrastructure is down all over the city,” World Vision Operations Director in Kathmandu Philip Ewert said. “Power is out with limited internet access. Walls and water tanks are damaged. We are also getting reports that people are trapped in temples and other public buildings as there was a large festival here Saturday.”

Along with search and rescue operations, setting up emergency shelters for displaces families was a priority, officials said. Initial needs were for potable water, food, household supplies and temporary shelters. Donations were being accepted on World View’s website at www.wvi.org.

Los Angeles County firefighters were prepared to head to Nepal to help, but had not been called in Saturday afternoon.

Staff writers Dana Bartholomew and Greg Yee contributed to this article.
</text>