<url>
https://in.news.yahoo.com/nepal-earthquake-1-417-people-rescued-far-180806536.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 1,417 people rescued so far
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi, Apr. 26 (ANI): The government, which has intensified the rescue efforts in Nepal that witnessed the worst earthquake in more than 80 years, has rescued 1,417 people so far.

"#NepalEarthquake. One more IAF flight arrives in Delhi with 226 stranded Indians in Kathmandu. Total evacuees - 1417," tweeted Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) official spokesperson Vikas Swarup.

Some more flights are expected to arrive later tonight with the evacuees.

An inter-ministerial team would be visiting Nepal to co-ordinate the relief and rescue operation in the earthquake affected areas.

Union Home Secretary L.C. Goyal told the media in New Delhi this evening that the team would comprise of six senior officials of the ministries involved in the relief and rescue operation.

Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar said that six more NDRF teams will reach Nepal by Monday to intensify the relief and rescue operation

He said 13 military and three civilian aircraft are also going to Kathmandu to bring the stranded people besides five military planes which are already in service.

Jaishankar said the government is also going to deploy 35 buses to move stranded nationals out of Nepal via Sunauli in Uttar Pradesh and Raxaul in Bihar.

The Foreign Secretary said the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu has also been asked to arrange buses to move people from there.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the agencies involved in the relief and rescue operation to speed up their efforts to save and evacuate people from Nepal.

Prime Minister Modi, who chaired a follow-up meeting today to review the progress of relief and rescue operations following the major earthquake in Nepal yesterday, said that highest priority be accorded to food and water supplies, including milk powder.

Prime Minister emphasized the need for further increasing the pace of search and rescue operations, and evacuation of stranded people from Nepal.

The Prime Minister directed that in addition to the air route, the road route should also be used for evacuating stranded people at the earliest. He stressed on the need for ensuring coordination among various agencies involved in relief and rescue operations.

The death toll from the devastating earthquake, which hit Nepal and northern parts of India on Saturday, climbed over 2,100 today even as the rescue efforts intensified in search of the survivors.

Earlier in the day, a powerful 6.7-magnitude aftershock jolted Nepal and adjoining areas, triggering panic among the people.

The massive earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction in Nepal's capital Kathmandu. (ANI)
</text>