<url>
http://www.kentonline.co.uk/tonbridge/news/briton-feared-missing-in-nepal-35810/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Matt Carapiet and Dartford's Derek Waters missing in Nepal earthquake, as Tonbridge man Sebastian Lovera and Margate's Rachel McDonald safe
</headline>

<text>
The family of a Kent man missing in Nepal have spoken of their desperation five days after the devastating earthquake hit.

Matt Carapiet, 23, from Peverel Drive, Bearsted, last made contact on April 19 when he was in Kathmandu as he was preparing to start the Langtang Trail.

In a statement released today, his family said: "Langtang Village was almost destroyed in a landslide, as were several smaller villages nearby.

"Matt may have stayed there, or he may have walked back to lower villages where survivors are known to be stranded."

The distraught family has spoken of their anxious wait by the phone, hoping to hear his voice, but has also criticised the Foreign and Commonwealth Office's response to the crisis.

They say their details were lost twice and the wrong emergency contacts were registered.

The family said: "Everything we know has been through the help of people on social media and other kind strangers.

"We would expect the FCO to play a better role in informing and reassuring the families of victims about the status of their missing loved ones."

Posting on the website Google People Finder, his parents said: "Hi Matts, Hope you are safe contact us as soon as you can. Love Mum and Dad xxx"

Matt, who also goes by the surname Karapetyan, is described as white, slim, 5'8'' with fair hair, brown eyes and a chipped front tooth.

Parents Jill and Greg heard from a backpacker, who had seen him in the village of Thangsyrap on April 23.

He said Matt, who was reported to be nursing a knee injury, was considering returning to Kathmandu, but had been convinced to stay by other trekkers.

Matt's sister Christina said: 'We are all really worried, we are just praying for a miracle really.

"We haven't heard any news at all. I just want to say to Matt, we miss you and please get in touch as soon as you can."

Meanwhile, Derek Waters, 56, from Dartford, is also thought to be still missing.

Elsewhere, Rachel McDonald, 26, a doctor originally from Margate, has managed to contact her family via Whatsapp to tell them she is safe.

She was travelling in Nepal with her husband Iain when the disaster struck.

Rachel's father John Parrott, of Monkton Gardens, said: "We are absolutely delighted to hear the news that our daughter and son-in-law are safe."

It comes after a Tonbridge family spoke of their "overwhelming relief" as they heard from their son - who it was feared might have also been among the victims of the disaster.

Sebastian Lovera, of Springwell Road, Tonbridge, was trekking from Khumjung airport where he landed on Tuesday towards the Mount Everest base camp with his climbing companion Emil Kaminsky when the earthquake hit.

Initially his mother Rachel, step-father Greg Smye-Rumsby and sister Imogen feared the worst, but Mr Smye-Rumbsy said: "This morning I was sitting at my computer checking out the information on the disaster when the phone rang and I recognised the number as Seb's.

Mr Smye-Rumsby said: "I can't begin to tell you how I felt.

"It was a terrible line, but Seb confirmed that both he and Emil are safe and uninjured.

"I can't begin to tell you how I felt. It was a terrible line, but Seb confirmed that both he and Emil are safe and uninjured..." - Greg Smye-Rumbsy

"They are stuck at a tiny village called Gorek Shep; they hadn't yet completed the eight-day trek to the Base Camp.

"He said they intended to stay on and see if they could help in the rescue efforts."

Mr Smye-Rumbsy said the pair would probably still face difficulties as food was likely to be in short supply, but he said: "Seb is a very determined and very resourceful young man, as long as he is not injured, I am sure he will be all right."

Mr Lovera was home-educated until the last year of schooling, when he went to Hayesbrook School in Tonbridge.

He is a qualified diving instructor and ski instructor and has travelled all around the world, but his trip to Nepal was purely for pleasure.

His mother Rachel Lovera is an English teacher at Tunbridge Wells Grammar School for Boys and had only just returned from Nepal herself a week ago after accompanying a party of students from the school on a World Challenge trip.

Mr Smye-Rumsby said: "She and about 30 boys went to all the places that we are now seeing devastated on the news."

There was good news too about the contingent of British Gurkhas climbing at Everest. All are safe.

Another group of Gurkhas from Kent are now preparing to fly out to Nepal to help with the search and rescue operation.

The 7.8 magnitude earthquake destroyed homes, businesses and temples in the capital of Kathmandu and around 2,000 people are now believed to have died, including 53 in India and 17 in Tibet.

The quake also triggered a massive avalanche on Mount Everest killing 18 people and injuring at least 30 climbers. Many climbers are still missing.

British Gurkhas, including servicemen from Maidstone, were among a national contingent in Nepal due to take part in an attempt to scale Mount Everest to celebrate 200 years of service to the British Crown.

However, all have been reported safe.

Brigadier Ian Rigden, who is the chairman of the Gurkha 200 Everest Committee said: "I have been able to get communication with Andrew Todd, our deputy team leader, at Camp 1, but very intermittently.

"All 18 members of our team and all of our Sherpa porters are safe.

"One team member who was joining late to support in Base Camp is on route and is a few days' trek away. His family have heard from him personally.

"Another 14 members are at Camp 1 with most of the Sherpas and three team members are at Base Camp with our remaining Sherpas."

"We know that they are all safe, but have not received any information about what is happening at Base Camp, as all our communication has been only with Camp 1.

"The team at Camp 1 have spoken to and know for definite that our men at Base Camp are safe, but comms are very difficult and they only spoke very briefly."

International rescue teams including from Britain are understood to be on their way to Nepal but the main airport in the capital is currently shut.

The earthquake triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest causing substantial damage to the mountain's base camp.

Around 700 climbers are believed to be in the region with around 300 of those at Everest Base Camp.

Candlelit vigils are taking place in Kent as a tribute to the victims of the disaster.
</text>