<url>
http://www.couriermail.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-fears-for-australians-missing/story-fnihsmjt-1227321312652?nk=09696f5f0b7330aa50f18308f0ccdacb
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Fears for Australians missing
</headline>

<text>
VICTIMS of an avalanche that has killed at least 14 people are being airlifted to safety with six helicopters joining rescue teams in Nepal.

AFP’s Kathmandu bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly said improved weather conditions overnight allowed helicopters to gain access to the Mount Everest base camp.

“People being stretchered out as choppers land - half a dozen this morning,” Kannampilly confirmed in a text message.

The update comes as Perth girl Ballantyne Forder, who was working in an orphanage in Nepal when the earthquake struck, has been found.

Ballantyne made contact through Facebook, quickly updating her status to let family and friends know she is safe.

So proud of my little sister! We still don't know where the heck she is, but she is safe! pic.twitter.com/fGZ5n3scFN — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 26, 2015

There are still grave fears for the safety of more than a dozen Australians travelling in Nepal after the magnitude 7.8 earthquake hit just outside the capital Kathmandu on Saturday.

Senior government sources have confirmed to The Sunday Telegraphthere are concerns that Australians are at serious risk from collapsed buildings and landslides in trekking areas.

Around 700 Australians registered with DFAT as travelling in Nepal. The Red Cross says more than a dozen Australian travellers are reported missing, including a man and woman from Adelaide and two men from Melbourne.

Actor Hugh Sheridan says his younger brother Zachary is among those missing. The Packed to the Rafters star tweeted his followers just after 1am on Sunday morning, asking them pray for his brother, who is on Mount Everest.

Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest, I'd appreciate every prayer you have spare x — Hugh Sheridan (@hugh_sheridan) April 25, 2015

media_camera Actor Hugh Sheridan says his younger brother Zachary is missing.

media_camera Zachary Sheridan (left) and his brother Hugh. Photo: Facebook.

Earlier today before she was found, Ballantyne Forder’s sister, Amanda-Sue Markham, said her family were desperate for news.

My sister near the centre of #earthquake in #Napal. Any news greatly appreciated on Ballantyne Forder @abcnews pic.twitter.com/DbkKcm1iGO — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 25, 2015

“She’s been over there working at baby orphanages for seven weeks,” Mrs Markham told The Sunday Telegraph.

“She is due to come home on May 31. She gave everything up to over there and help the kids.

“She’s been in Kathmandu and Pokhara but we don’t know where exactly she is right now.

“We’ve all been praying together for her,” she said.

“The family is sitting around the computer trying to get in touch and just looking for information. I’m shaking. She is such a beautiful, adventurous kid. But she is on her own pretty much because she was travelling alone.

“We are just hoping that she is OK and that she can’t contact us because all the lines of communication are down.”

media_camera Ballantyne Forder’s sister says the Perth woman is missing in Nepal. Photo: Amanda-Sue Markham @sue_amandasue.

media_camera Emergency rescue workers carry a victim on a stretcher after Dharara tower collapsed in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: Omar Havana.

THE EARTHQUAKE

The earthquake originated outside the capital Kathmandu and was the worst tremor to hit the poor South Asian nation in over 80 years.

It was so powerful that it was felt across the northern part of neighbouring India, Bangladesh, Tibet and Pakistan where a total of 50 people died. The death toll in Nepal was 1,130, but it is almost certain to rise, said deputy Inspector General of Police Komal Singh Bam.

Nepalese run in terror after earthquake 0:35 An earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, has led to chaos in streets. Nepalese run in terror after earthquake

More than two dozen aftershocks jolted the area after the first quake, which struck just before noon on Saturday. At the time, Shrish Vaidya, who runs an advertising agency, was in his two-storey house outside the capital Kathmandu with his agents.

“It is hard to describe. The house was shaking like crazy. We ran out and it seemed like the road was heaving up and down,” Vaidya, 46, told AP. “I don’t remember anything like this before. Even my parents can’t remember anything this bad.”

This below CCTV from Kathmandu was taken by Kishor Rana and shows the frightening effects of the earthquake.

CCTV Captures Violence of Earthquake in Nepal 0:44 This CCTV footage is described as showing the moment the earthquake struck Kathmandu. Courtesy: Kishor Rana/Facebook CCTV Captures Violence of Earthquake in Nepal

All across the country, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. And clouds of dust began to swirl all around.

Once the first shaking stopped, Vaidya thought the family could return indoors by the evening. But the jolts kept coming, and they felt safer outdoors.

“It’s cold and windy so we are all sitting in the car listening to the news on FM radio,” he said. “The experts are saying it’s still not safe to go back inside. No one can predict how big the next aftershock will be.”

Countries including Britain and the US have pledged international aid to Nepal.

Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop will make a statement when more information becomes available.

media_camera People stand on top of debris from a collapsed building at Basantapur Durbar Square watching the destruction following the earthquake. Photo: Omar Havana.

EXPERTS KNEW THE EARTHQUAKE WAS COMING

Just a week ago, about 50 earthquake and social scientists from around the world came to Kathmandu, Nepal, to figure out how to get this poor, congested, overdeveloped, shoddily built area to prepare better for the big one, a repeat of the 1934 temblor that levelled this city.

They knew they were racing the clock, but they didn’t know when what they feared would strike.

“It was sort of a nightmare waiting to happen,” said seismologist James Jackson, head of the earth sciences department at the University of Cambridge in England. “Physically and geologically what happened is exactly what we thought would happen.”

A Kathmandu earthquake had long been feared, not just because of the natural seismic fault, but because of the local, more human conditions that make it worse.

The same size shaking can have bigger effects on different parts of the globe because of building construction and population and that’s something the U.S. Geological Survey calculates ahead of time. So the same level of severe shaking would cause 10 to 30 people to die per million residents in California, but 1,000 maybe more in Nepal, and up to 10,000 in parts of Pakistan, India, Iran and China, said USGS seismologist David Wald.

If you are trying to contact loved ones in Nepal, contact the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade on 1300 555 135 or from overseas on +61 6261 3305.

Originally published as Fears for Australians missing in Nepal
</text>