<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/Cracks-in-Janaki-temple/articleshow/47063249.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Cracks in Janaki temple
</headline>

<text>
JANAKPURDHAM, Nepal: The 8th dome of the famous Janki temple, constructed in 1874, has broken down due to the quake. The eastern part of the temple has also developed cracks. Priests are afraid the temple may not be able to withstand another aftershock.Yet, around a thousand families are living near the temple area. The temple committee has organized a bhajan session to calm down the frayed nerves of people.The market place is closed. Only medicine shops and two-three other shops are open. The shops and schools are closed as per the administration's order. The area is sans phone connectivity now. After the first tremor on Saturday, people have left their houses and are living in the open in fear. People with relatives in India are shifting.Janani Devi, a shopowner, said all her relatives shifted to Patna on Sunday morning. "I didn't go as this was my husband's shop. He died two years back. If I have to die, I will prefer to die here," she said. Suraj Yadav, a builder, said, "My elder daughter is stuck at Kathmandu. I have shifted rest of the family to the temple." Chunri Kumara, a college student, said, "My parents went to Kathmandu for business and now I am left alone here."The administration is continuously making announcements asking people to stay away from concrete buildings. Having felt repeated aftershocks, most families are struck with fear. Rakhi, a student of Class VII said, "I feel like crying as my house may come down anytime. We all are living on the streets for the last two days. I have spent the whole day roaming around the temple premises and praying to god to save us."While crossing the border from Bhitta Mor on the Indian side to Nepal, rows of cars could be seen waiting for checking. People are trying to leave Nepal to avoid more disaster.At Janakpurdham, the boundary walls of the houses adjoining the temple have developed cracks. Fresh tremors have brought the town to a halt. People are keeping awake their children, fearing they might die if they fall asleep.The local taxi and bus services from Janakpurdham to Kathmandu have suspended their services. A few braveheart drivers are ready to carry passengers but are charging almost triple the usual charge. "We cannot sit idle and wait for the tremors to come. We have to earn to sustain ourselves. But hardly anybody is ready to go to Kathmandu or Pokhra," said Ashok, a taxi driver.At the checking point at Bhitta Mor, Indian security personnel are also facing hardship. An SSB jawan said, "For the last two days, we do not have telephone connectivity. The markets are closed and we are facing food scarcity. We are witnessing hundreds of families migrating from Nepal to India. Many of them have lost their last penny at Pokhra or Kathmandu, but somehow managed to save their lives and leaving for Patna."
</text>