<url>
http://mashable.com/2015/04/25/nepal-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nearly 1,800 dead after Nepal rocked by massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake
</headline>

<text>
UPDATED 9:40 p.m. PT

Hundreds of people are dead, ancient temples are in ruin and Nepal is a zone of devastation after the country was hit on Saturday with its worst earthquake in 80 years.

Just before midday, an earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.8 struck the poor South Asian nation, killing at least 1,800 people in Nepal and dozens more in neighboring countries, authorities told The Associated Press. The death toll is expected to rise. At least 17 people were also killed at Mount Everest, with 61 injured. More than two dozen were killed in India, Tibet and Bangladesh.



People being pulled from a collapsed building.

The quake's epicenter was 80 km (50 miles) east of Nepal's second largest city, Pokhara, and 77 km (48 miles) northwest of the capital city, Kathmandu, according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). The capital was the hardest hit along with the densely populated Kathmandu Valley. Following the quake, a magnitude 6.6 aftershock hit and multiple smaller quakes trembled across the region.

The epicenter, starred, near the capital, Kathmandu. Mount Everest is on the border to the east. Image: USGS

As dozens of people were rushed to the hospital in central Kathmandu with injuries, Google launched "person finder" for concerned relatives to find information.

People carry a woman from the rubble. Image: EPA NARENDRA SHRESTHA

The collision of Earth's plates that gave rise to the Himalayas can cause major earthquakes in northern India, Pakistan and Nepal. The Indian and Asian plates are still grinding against one another, releasing energy through such tremors. An EU report said Nepal was the 11th most vulnerable country to earthquakes.

Yet a natural disaster of this scale is rare in the region, according to the USGS. The largest quake in Nepal's recorded history, a magnitude 8.0 temblor in 1934, hit near Kathmandu causing severe damage and killing more than 10,000 people. Only four earthquakes over magnitude 6 have hit within 250 km of the epicenter of Saturday's quake. In August 1988, a 6.9 magnitude quake hit causing 1,500 deaths.

The quake Saturday had a depth of only 11 kilometers (7 miles), which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries.

Pushpa Das, a laborer, tried to flee a home when the first quake struck but injured his arm when a wall collapsed. He told the AP it was "very scary." He said: "The earth was moving ... I am waiting for treatment but the [hospital] staff is overwhelmed."

This man was buried under rubble during the earthquake, but he was dug out by rescuers:

Man buried under the rubble. Image: EPA NARENDRA SHRESTHA

People help the man who was freed from the rubble. Image: EPA NARENDRA SHRESTHA

The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Image: AP Images/Associated Press

At Mount Everest, the earthquake apparently triggered an avalanche, killing at least eight people and leaving others injured or missing.

Everest base camp huge earthquaqe then huge avalanche from pumori.Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain. — Alex Gavan (@AlexGAVAN) April 25, 2015

The Khumbu Icefall route to Everest's summit reportedly collapsed. The avalanche apparently spared the base camp, but injuries were reported there.

As the ground began to shake, several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers, resident Prachanda Sual told the AP.

I took these photos an hour apart. Was wandering when quake demolished temples before my eyes. Heartbreaking. pic.twitter.com/RYtIZI4725 — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

The Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument, was reduced to rubble. There were also reports of people trapped underneath.

The historic Dharahara tower was 200 feet tall. Image: Niranjan Shrestha/Associated Press

The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.

Made by earthquake in bhakatpur Posted by Sapan Sagar on Friday, April 24, 2015

While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of Nepal, a poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

In Kathmandu, dozens of people were gathered in the parking lot of Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas. A woman with a bandage on her head sat in a set of chairs pulled from the hospital waiting room.

People carry the injured. Image: EPA NARENDRA SHRESTHA

Doctors and nurses had hooked up some patients to IV drops in the parking lot, or were giving people oxygen.

The U.S. Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 but then lowered it to 7.8. It said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time (0611 GMT) at Lamjung. It was the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.

An earthquake's power increases by 10 times with each increase in the number of its scale. A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while a magnitude 8 quake can cause tremendous damage.

This means Saturday's earthquake — the same magnitude as the one that hit San Francisco in 1906 — was far more powerful than the 7.0 quake that devastated Haiti in 2010.

A Swedish woman, Jenny Adhikari, who lives in Nepal, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that she was riding a bus in the town of Melamchi when the earth began to move.

"A huge stone crashed only about 20 meters from the bus," she was quoted as saying. "All the houses around me have tumbled down. I think there are lot of people who have died," she told the newspaper by telephone. Melamchi is about 45 km (30 miles) northeast of Kathmandu.

The sustained quake also was felt in India's capital of New Delhi. India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage and disaster preparedness in parts of India that felt strong tremors. The Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, which share a border with Nepal, have reported building damage. There have also been reports of damage in the northeastern state of Assam.

Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif offered "all possible help" that Nepal may need.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States is working with Nepal's government to provide aid. He added that U.S. Ambassador to Nepal Peter Bodde "has issued a disaster declaration in order to immediately release an initial $1 million for humanitarian assistance." Read Kerry's full statement, here.

Our thoughts & prayers go out to those affected by #NepalEarthquake. We're working closely w/gov't of Nepal to provide assistance & support. — John Kerry (@JohnKerry) April 25, 2015

Additional reporting by The Associated Press
</text>