<url>
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/47512/20150426/death-toll-in-nepal-quake-climbs-to-almost-2-000.htm
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Death Toll In Nepal Quake Climbs To Almost 2,000
</headline>

<text>
Politics

Death Toll In Nepal Quake Climbs To Almost 2,000

The devastating earthquake that rocked Nepal on Saturday did not just take almost 2,000 lives. It also destroyed a lot of centuries-old temples in Durbar Square in Katmandu, including the landmark Dharahara tower.



By Saturday night, the number of dead people had exceeded 1,800, according to the Nepalese Home Ministry. The number of injured is also in the thousands. Nepalese rescuers were using their bare hands to dig residents buried in rubble.



Like Us on Facebook

Advertisement

The tremor also caused an avalanche in Mount Everest. As of Sunday, 17 bodies of climbers have been recovered, but hundreds of injured people are still stranded on the world's tallest peak, Reuters reports.



Among those who died in Mount Everest was Marise Eve Girawong, a doctor's assistant who served as team medic of Madison Mountaineering.



Information Minister Minendra Rijal announced the closure of schools for five days in affected areas. Nepalese were encouraged to save fuel by not driving, while drug stores were asked to remain open 24 hours for those hurt to have access to drugs and first-aid supplies, reports the Washington Post.



"We never imagined that we would face such devastation," Rijal said.



Foreign aid will soon start to come in after the USAID said it would deploy a disaster response team and a specialized urban search-and-rescue team. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said it would provide Nepal an initial $1 million emergency humanitarian aid.



Israel Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said the country would send military jets with manpower and equipment to help in rescue efforts. The team has medical, logistics and search-and-rescue experts. Israel is also sending incubators for 24 babies who were born to Nepalese mothers but could no longer care for their infants. The newborns would be taken care of by Israeli parents.



India sent three tons of supplies, planes, rescue staff, a mobile hospital and 15 helicopters. China deployed an emergency team made up of 60 people.



Katmandu's medical facilities were overwhelmed by the large number of patients arriving at the hospitals.



On Saturday night, thousands of survivors spent the night outdoors in spite of the freezing temperature and rainfall. Many of them were fearful that aftershocks may happen while they are inside their damaged homes.







Advertisement

©2017 Chinatopix All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission
</text>