<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/473903/india-rushes-help-quake-hit.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
India rushes to help quake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
India rushes to help quake-hit Nepal

New Delhi, Apr 25, 2015, DHNS: 2:19 IST

Aircraft carrying aid materials, NDRF personnel and mobile hospital already sent

India on Saturday rushed to help Nepal, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaking to leaders of the neighbouring country soon after it was hit by a massive earthquake.



He subsequently sent four aircraft with relief and rescue materials as well as National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel.



The Indian Air Force (IAF) will also deploy at least five helicopters on Sunday to support the Nepalese government’s rescue and relief efforts.



At least 250 Indian citizens stranded in Nepal were being evacuated on Saturday, while more are likely to be brought home in the coming days.



“Nepal’s pain is our pain,” said Modi, after instructing the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and other wings of the Central government to do all they could to help the neighbouring country, where India competes with China for clout.



“I have spoken to Nepal’s president (Ram Baran Yadav) and prime minister (Sushil Koirala), and assured them that this country of 125 crore is with you,” said Modi on Saturday evening, after conferring the 2014 Jnanpith Award on Marathi author Bhalchandra Nemade.



Both the MEA and Embassy of India in Kathmandu have set up control rooms with dedicated phone numbers to help rescue and relief operations as well as evacuation of Indians from Nepal.



External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj was interacting with anxious members of the families of Indians stranded in Nepal, and sought their help so that Indian Embassy officials could locate them.



A C-130 transport aircraft of the IAF—with three tonnes of relief materials, 36 NDRF personnel and a mobile hospital with doctors and paramedics—landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu within a few hours of the quake.



Though the airport was closed for commercial flights immediately after the quake, the IAF sent two C-17 aircraft from the Hindon airbase in Uttar Pradesh. Another aircraft would take off from Bhatinda in Punjab, said Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar.



All the aircraft are carrying rescue and relief materials and NDRF personnel, he said, adding that they would also carry out aerial reconnaissance to assess the extent of devastation around Kathmandu.



New Delhi will send a special engineering team to Kathmandu to help rescue operations, said the Foreign Secretary. He also advised Indians stranded in Nepal or their families in India to contact the control rooms at the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu and the MEA headquarters in New Delhi.



India’s ties with Nepal have been among the priorities of the Modi government’s foreign policy. The prime minister visited Nepal twice within just six months after taking charge—first in August for a bilateral visit and then in November to attend the 18th SAARC summit.



The August visit was in fact the first by an Indian prime minister in 17 years.“The magnitude of the earthquake has disturbed the heart. The extent of the damage is not yet known. May God give them the strength to deal with the situation,” said Modi, who has been in touch with New Delhi’s envoy to Kathmandu, Ranjit Rae, to personally monitor India’s efforts to help Nepal.



Kathmandu’s ambassador-designate to New Delhi, Deep Kumar Upadhyay, said the people and government of Nepal were thankful to India for rushing to help in this hour of crisis. He said his country would need more mobile medical units from India, besides other assistance.



The Prime Minister’s Office also got in touch with Embassy of India in Thimphu immediately after the quake to check if Bhutan required any assistance from India. The Bhutanese government, however, informed the Indian Embassy in Thimphu that no casualty or major damage had been reported there after the quake.
</text>