<url>
http://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/India/20150426/2580088.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Himalayan tragedy unfolding:2,500 killed in Nepal and 62 in India, aftershocks continue unabated, war footing rescue operation underway
</headline>

<text>
A strong earthquake, measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale, rocked Nepal and various states of India this afternoon even as the death toll in yesterday's temblor mounted to 2,500 in Nepal and 62 in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a top level meeting with Ministers of Home and Defence and other senior colleagues to assess the situation. Giving details of the meeting and rescue efforts launched by India in Nepal and in India, Home Secretary L C Goyal told reporters that 62 persons died in the earthquake related incidents in India while 259 others left injured. Mr Goyal said a maximum of 46 people have died in quake related accidents in Bihar followed by Uttar Pradesh (13), West Bengal (2) and Rajasthan (1). "We are in constant touch with the state governments,'' he said. As per report received, two people from Bihar are reported to have died in Nepal, hesaid. However, the National Disaster Response Force has been able to save eight people and recover 23 bodies of victims in the neighbouring country, Mr Goyal said. Mr Modi today expressed his feeling of sadness and grief with the people in his "Man Ki Baat" programme in All India Radio (AIR) against the backdrop of the recent devastating cyclone in Bihar and killer earthquake in Nepal and India, yesterday. He reassured India's solidarity and full support to Nepal in dealing with the calamity that took heavy toll on lives. Opening his speech Mr Modi said "Mann ki baat karne ka mann nahi ho raha aaj, (I do not feel like holding talk today as I do feel heavy hearted and sad).'' Earthquake has taken a toll on lives in India, but the effects in Nepal are horrific, he observed. "Nepal par kya beet rahi hai, un parivaron pe kya beet ti hogi, uski mai kalpanakar sakta hun(We cannot imagine what Nepal and the families staying there are going through)", he said. "Hindustan Iss aapada ke samay puri tareh Nepal ke saath hai, ham har Nepalike aansu poochenge, Unn logon ka dukh bhi hamara dukh hai"(we stand by Nepal in this hour of crisis, we would wipe out tears from every Nepali's eyes", an emotional Mr Modi assured. "Rescue operations is a priority, relief efforts are also on, despatch of relief material has already been initiated". Round of affected areas in Kathmandu, several streets have developed deep and wide cracks. These cracks were so deep that Vehicular traffic could not move on these districts. A number of guest houses near the damaged new bus stand in Kathmandu have caved in . people fear that many were feared trapped under these buildings. intermittent rains have started pounding the capital of this Himalayan state and people have huddled themselves in make shift camps which is dripping due to rains. MORE UNI TEAM NB-AT CH 2041 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0109-97541.Xml
</text>