<url>
http://triblive.com/usworld/world/8245833-74/kobold-company-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Employees of Mercer County-based manufacturer among missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Sign up for one of our email newsletters.

Two workers for a Western Pennsylvania-based watch manufacturer are among the thousands of people missing in Nepal, where a catastrophic earthquake hit Saturday, the company's founder and CEO said.

Michael Kobold, 36, of Volant, Mercer County, said the president of his Katmandu subsidiary, a watch-strap maker there and their families are unaccounted for.

He declined to confirm names.

“We understand their homes have collapsed on them. We believe they are trapped under the rubble, which is obviously very bad news. But this is just preliminary,” Kobold told the Tribune-Review.

He believes his company, Mercer County-based Kobold Expedition Tools, lost a factory in Katmandu to the earthquake.

Kobold said the international outpost employs four Nepalese.

The company expanded there in 2012, two years after two mountain guides — called sherpas — resuscitated Kobold's wife, Anita, during a climb on Mount Everest.

Kobold said the grateful couple invested nearly $200,000 to open subsidiary Kobold Nepal, where they employed both sherpas to run the operation.

He identified them as Namgel Sherpa and Thundu Sherpa. One is among the two missing employees, although Kobold declined to specify which one.

“They're businessmen now,” he said, explaining that he and his wife “wanted to do something more substantial” than a basic monetary gift for the men.

Longtime adviser Jack Roseman called Kobold a successful entrepreneur who's “also interested in doing something for his fellow man.” Kobold started the watch company about 18 years ago, when he was a freshman at Carnegie Mellon University in Oakland.

“He's determined. All you have to tell him is ‘That can't be done.' Forget it. He'll show you,” said Roseman, a retired entrepreneurship professor at Carnegie Mellon who helped Kobold develop a business plan.

Kobold keeps a primary manufacturing base in Volant and employs eight people in Pennsylvania, where the company has helped drive a watch-making resurgence in the United States.

Former President Bill Clinton and late actor James Gandolfini rank among the luminaries known to own the company's timepieces, which can top $8,000 apiece.

Now, Kobold is banking on star power to help fuel a humanitarian mission in Nepal. He said English actor Malcolm McDowell and other high-profile figures are lining up to support a multi-million-dollar campaign for new fire engines, ambulances and other emergency equipment in Nepal.

“It's such a shame that this earthquake would happen before we could get there,” said Kobold, who has been pushing the effort for the past 41⁄2 years.

He and supporters organized the campaign as seismologists warned of a likely earthquake. The group just “didn't realize it would hit so soon,” he said, worrying another might strike within a couple of months.

Kobold shared a foundation website — soarway-foundation.org — where he said more fundraising information should appear soon. He plans to fly to Katmandu as soon as it's safe, he said.

A long-expected fire truck delivery mission, dubbed the Katmandu Fire Truck Expedition, is tentatively set for December.

“Now, with everything destroyed, they need equipment more than ever,” Kobold said.

Adam Smeltz is a staff writer for Trib Total Media. He can be reached at 412-380-5676 or asmeltz@tribweb.com.
</text>