<url>
http://metronews.ca/news/toronto/1350958/torontos-nepalese-canadians-plan-to-aid-relief-after-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Toronto's Nepalese-Canadians plan to aid relief after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Toronto’s 10,000-strong Nepalese-Canadian community is preparing itself for a massive relief effort as if reels in the face of a deadly earthquake back home that has killed more than 1,000 people.

Community leaders have been fielding scores of calls throughout Saturday from compatriots anxious about family in Nepal, where the death toll is rising rapidly after the country’s worst earthquake in 80 years.

Anil Thapa, president of the Non-Resident Nepalese Association Canada, found that his relatives back in Nepal were all right, but he said his “ancestor’s house,” build by his grandfather more than 40 years ago, has collapsed.

“It was build by mud and stone,” said Thapa, whose family lives in Palung, 80 kilometres from the capital of Kathmandu. “It was not made of solid cement and it was standing there till last night.”

“It happened in the morning at 4 a.m., but till 8 a.m. I was not connected with my family,” Thapa said. “At 8 a.m., somehow a cell phone worked.”

One leader told the Star the community will be holding an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon at Napalese Community Network in Toronto, where they will decide on a collective way to approach the 7.8-magnitute tremor. About 30 prominent members of the community from across the country — some who are appearing via video — are expected to be present.

“We’re trying to figure out how we can have a dialogue with the Canadian government and approach the community and do a fundraising for the people,” said Thapa.

Thapa said the community will be appealing to the Canadian government for help and will also be looking into sending a team to help on the ground. Specifics are expected be hashed out at the meeting.

“It’s not something, right away, that we can change,” he said. “It will take time to reconstruct everything. It might even take two, three years.”

The earthquake had collapsed modern houses and centuries-old temples, and triggered a landslide on the slopes of Mount Everest.

Thapa, who took more than 80 calls Saturday, said a small number of people whose families were living in rural areas were not able to contact their loved ones as the far-reaching earthquake cut off communications.

Thapa is appealing for help from the Canadian public.

“This is coming from the bottom of my heart,” he said. “We request all Canadians to come forward to help Nepal in this situation.”

A number of non-profit organizations are current accepting donations, including Plan Canada, the Canadian Red Cross, Unicef Canada, CARE Canada. Information can be found on the organizations’ websites.

The Nepalese Canadian Community Services has launched a fundraising campaign for the victims of earthquake. Gopal Bhandari, president of the organization, says his team will also be emailing members to appeal for the money and has set a preliminary target of $50,000. Those wishing to donate can do so through its website.

Bhandari, 58, said on Saturday he had been up since 4 a.m., fielding more than 60 calls — “Family, friends, everyone was calling with news of the disaster.” The email will go to about 1,000 people who are subscribed to updates, out of the 10,000 Nepalese in Toronto.

He added there are many compatriots in Canada whose families are made homeless by the earthquake and the community wants Ottawa to allow them to sponsor relatives who have lost their homes to come to Canada.

“I’d like to appeal to the government of Canada, provincial and federal, to support the Nepalese who are homeless in Nepal and whose families are working in Canada,” he said, “I’d like to request to bring their children (here).”

The driving instructor, who left Nepal 27 years ago and worked for years as a chef for the Sutton Place Hotel until it closed in 2012, said “we are hoping to raise $50,000 through our PayPl account as an immediate response.”

Pitambar Bhattarai, secretary of the Nepalese Canadian Network of Canada, said the will be another meeting for the community on Sunday in the Peel region, the details of which are yet to be finalized.

Nursing student Shirshir Pandey, 37, owns a 1,200-student private college in Katmandu. As far as he knows, the building is still standing. But he frets about the students and their families: “everyone is sleeping on the ground outside tonight. They are worried about aftershocks.”

Since the earthquake occurred in a remote area outside Katmandu, Pandey is said it will take time to find out how many more have been lost.

Real estate agent Laxman Subedi, 30, left Nepal five years ago and is eager to help the victims, “And they are seeking support from us. So we are trying to organize a way to help.”

Sharmila Shrestha, 49, who has been in Canada for seven years said her family home sustained cracks, but no one was injured. “I am very scared for other people,” she said. “I’ve seen so many terrible pictures.”

Sushila Bhandari, 57, president of the Nepalese Women’s Association of Canada, said she grew up hearing stories about Nepal’s last devastating earthquake 80 years ago.
</text>