<url>
http://www.mid-day.com/articles/nepal-earthquake-tourists-from-maharashtra-are-safe-say-dma-officials/16165153
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Tourists from state are safe, say DMA officials
</headline>

<text>
A few hundred tourists from Maharashtra are reportedly in Nepal, in the midst of the natural calamity.

As per information received from the state government’s disaster management helpline number (Control Room—022-22027990), more than 500 tourists from Maharashtra had gone to Nepal. These tourists were travelling with various tourism firms, including Kesari and Veena World. Officials added that these tourists were safe and that the state government would send help if required. Officials from the disaster management helpline further added that there might be more people from the state who are stuck in Nepal, but they did not have the details of the number of people travelling independently of tour companies.

Also read: Death and destruction as massive earthquake hits Nepal



Members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) prepare relief materials to be airlifted to Nepal for providing assistance to the earthquake victims. AFP PHOTO/Rajesh Kumar

On their official websites, Veena World and Kesari Tours have both announced that guests travelling with them are safe. “We have co-coordinated with our respective tour managers in the affected regions. All the tourists that had gone to Nepal and its neighbouring areas through our packages are safe,” said an official from Veena World.

Nepal Earthquake: The day the Earth shook

No help requested yet

Suhas Diwase, director, Maharashtra state disaster management unit, said, “107 people from Maharashtra are trapped in Nepal but they are all safe. The one in Nepal is an international calamity and Indian NDRF teams have already been sent there for rescue work. If required, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) will ask state Disaster Management Agencies (DMA) for help. The NDRF and state DMA teams in Bihar are well-equipped to handle the situation. We have not been asked for help yet. We are only issuing warnings and alerts in earthquake-prone areas of Maharashtra.”

Also read: Nearly 125 Indians stranded in Nepal

“If required, we will send doctors and surgeons from municipal hospitals,” said SS Shinde, joint municipal commissioner incharge of disaster management.

All geared up

The National Disaster Response Force and Civil Defence (NDRF) has sent teams from across the country. “We have kept 10 teams ready, one of which has already left. Five would be dispatched from Bhatinda, while four more will be sent from Delhi,” said an official from NDRF. Five more teams of NDRF were also dispatched to Bihar, UP and parts of West Bengal.

Meanwhile, the Indian Army pulled out several bodies from the Everest base camp at 18,000 feet. The bodies were of the mountaineering team that was on its way to clean up Everest. Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu has instructed to despatch 1 lakh one-litre Rail Neer bottles, the packaged drinking water supplied for users of Indian Railways, to assist Katmandu.

Inputs from Ankoor Anvekar, Tanvi Despande, Vedika Chaubey
</text>