<url>
http://allindiaroundup.com/serious-threat-to-india-due-to-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Is There a Serious Threat to India in Coming Days..? – Watch Exclusive Video Here
</headline>

<text>
An earthquake in Nepal has left buildings in the capital, Kathmandu, in ruins. More than 1600 people are dead after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake early Saturday near Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital and largest city. Nearly 1,600 are known to have died in a powerful earthquake in Nepal, with many more feared trapped under rubble, officials say. The 7.8 magnitude quake struck an area between the capital, Kathmandu, and the city of Pokhara, the US Geological Survey said.

An estimated 4.6 million people in the region were exposed to tremors from the Nepal earthquake, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said via Twitter. Thirty out of 75 Nepal districts were affected by the quake. In neighboring Tibet, roads buckled, buildings collapsed and at least 13 people were killed, China’s state media reported, citing local authorities. Separately, at least four Chinese citizens in Nepal — two workers with a Chinese company, a tourist and a mountaineer have been killed, state media reported, citing the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu.

Tremors were felt across the region, with further loss of life in India, Bangladesh, Tibet and on Mount Everest. The government has declared a state of emergency in the affected areas. A national police spokesman told the BBC that 970 people had died in the quake, and that more than 1,700 had been injured. At least 539 people were killed in the Kathmandu valley, he added. Nepali Information Minister Minendra Rijal said there had been “massive damage” at the epicentre, from where little information is emerging.

A number of historic buildings have been destroyed. Among those wrecked was the landmark Dharahara tower, with many feared trapped in its ruins. After the earthquake struck, frightened residents came out into the streets. Mobile phones and other communications have been disrupted. Major historic monuments in the Nepalese capital have been destroyed in the powerful earthquake, eyewitnesses and officials have said. These include a nine-storey tower, temples and some parts of what was once a royal palace, all listed as Unesco world heritage sites.

India is at Risk.. True..Watch it Here :

Is India at Risk…?? Posted by Srujitha Manchikanti on Sunday, April 26, 2015

The quake struck at 11:56 a.m. local time (2:11 a.m. ET) and was centered less than 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu. It occurred at a depth of 9.3 miles, which is considered shallow and more damaging than a deeper quake. It was reported by people in the area as having lasted a long time. One person said he felt as if he were on a ship in rough seas

At least 35 people have been killed in India, Indian officials say, with one death also reported in Bangladesh. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has met his ministers to review the situation. Pakistan’s Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, has pledged help for the Nepalese authorities. It is the worst earthquake to strike Nepal since one in 1934 all but destroyed Kathmandu.

There are rumors that there will be a serious threat to India in the coming days. Not only in India but if the same type of earthquake occurs in Himalayas with the same intensity then there will be serious and huge loss to near by countries like India, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Pakistan.
</text>