<url>
http://paktribune.com/news/Pakistan-sent-rescue-and-relief-assistance-to-Nepal-273610.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Pakistan sent rescue and relief assistance to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Pakistan sent rescue and relief assistance to Nepal

KATHMANDU: Four Pakistan Air Force (PAF) aircraft carrying rescue and relief assistance, including a 30-bed mobile hospital, for Nepal left for the earthquake-devastated country Nepal on Sunday.



Two C-130 aircrafts have landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu and two more are expected to reach Kathmandu on April 27.



In line with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's directive, the two C-130s which reached Kathmandu today are carrying a medical team of doctors and paramedics, a 30-bed hospital, medicines, tents, water, dry food, and a search and rescue team with equipment



The relief team and equipment have been put together with the collaboration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pakistan Army, PAF, National Disaster Management Authority of Pakistan, the embassy of Pakistan in Kathmandu, the embassy of Nepal in Islamabad, and the Nepalese authorities.



The Pakistani ambassador and other embassy officials were present at the airport to facilitate and extend logistical support to Pakistan relief assistance team.



Besides making efforts for relief assistance in Nepal, the embassy also reached out to Pakistani expatriates to extend their support.



According to ISPR, the 30-bed hospital will be run by Pakistan Army doctors including surgical, medical, orthopedic, gynecologist, anesthesiologist, child specialist, radiologist and paramedics.



“Four C-130 aircraft carrying a 30-bed hospital, special search and rescue teams including Army doctors and food items left for Nepal,” Director General Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), Maj-Gen Asim Bajwa said in a tweet on Sunday.



Another tweet said that, "Urban search & rescue team of Pakistan Army, equipped with ground-penetrating radars, concrete cutters, sniffing dogs and other equipment sent to help rescue teams. "



Food items include 2,000 meals, ready-to-eat packs, eatables and bottled water while the team is also carrying medicines, 200 tents, 600 blankets and other necessary items, according to the state-run Radio Pakistan website.



Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had offered humanitarian assistance in telephonic conversation with his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala following the midday earthquake that left nearly 2,000 people dead.



Mr Sharif had called the Nepalese premier from London, where he is participating in the commemoration of the centenary of the Gallipoli campaign and Anzac Day. Mr Koirala, meanwhile, was on a visit to Bangkok.
</text>