<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150427/jsp/northeast/story_16815.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
63 from Assam still stranded, 27 return
</headline>

<text>
Guwahati, April 26: The helplines set up in the aftermath of the Himalayan earthquake in Nepal have registered 90 calls by panic-stricken family members ever since tragedy struck. Of the 90 families who called in, 63 are yet to be traced while 27 reached New Delhi today, according to officials of the Assam government helpline set up to assist the disaster-hit people. Inspector-general of police (special branch) Hiren Nath said here today the Indian embassy in Kathmandu and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) informed them that efforts were on to locate the rest as well. "Altogether 18 people from Assam who reached New Delhi in the first special aircraft this morning will reach Guwahati tomorrow while one person decided to stay back in Delhi. Eight more persons from Assam came back to Delhi from Kathmandu with another batch of Indians who reached today. We are in touch with the NDRF, officials of the ministry of externalaffairs and home affairs to trace those with whom we are yet to establish contact," Nath said. Nath was designated as the nodal officer of two helpline numbers (09435552203 and 08749860803) opened yesterday to assist the family members of those from the state who are stranded in Nepal. Nath said they had not yet received official confirmation about deaths of any person from the state in Nepal. "Most of those from Assam who are stranded in Nepal are either tourists or were visiting the country for treatment. Some of them, however, went for some other work too. The number of people from our state stranded in Nepal may go up as we are getting more calls from their families," Nath said. "Those who reached Delhi are being taken care of and will be brought back by air. Keeping in mind the concerns of the families of those stuck, another control room (011-26877111/26116444) has been opened in the Assam House in Delhi," P.K. Tiwari, commissioner and secretary of Assam disaster management department said. Tiwari is the chief executive officer of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). Tiwari said the authority issued alerts to all the districts in the state to assist people seeking help from the administration. "Since Assam is situated in the seismically active zone V and earthquake is a reality we have already asked the district administration to take precautionary measures to reduce damages and save lives in case a disaster strikes," Tiwari said. The ASDMA has two toll-free helpline numbers - 1070 in the state emergency operation centre here and another 1077 in the district emergency operation centre. They also have a landline number (0361-2237219) to assist people in emergencies. Official sources said chief minister Tarun Gogoi asked additional director-general of police (administration) Umesh Kumar to leave for Kathmandu tomorrow morning to oversee the rescue of those from Assam stranded in Nepal.
</text>