<url>
http://www.canberratimes.com.au/act-news/nepal-earthquake-canberra-grandmother-and-grandson-found-safe-20150426-1mtc0e.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Canberra grandmother and grandson found safe
</headline>

<text>
After a frantic 24 hours a Canberra mother is overjoyed to hear her mother and her son are safe, after walking out of a temple in Nepal that was reduced to rubble in the horrific earthquake on Saturday.

Kiki Korpinen had not heard from her mother Riitta Korpinen or her 21-year-old son Hamish McKee since Wednesday, and alerted authorities on Saturday in the wake of earthquake which has claimed more than 1800 lives.

Late on Sunday afternoon Riitta Korpinen rang her husband Reko, at their family property near Queanbeyan, to say she and her grandson were safe. Mr Korpinen then rang his daughter Kiki, who had said earlier awaiting news and not hearing anything had been horrific.

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link Hamish McKee and his grandmother Riitta Korpinen are reported safe in Nepal following the April 25 earthquake. Photo: Supplied

"Oh my God you can't believe how happy we are. They are so lucky. They are safe and they are fine," Ms Korpinen said after hearing from her father.

"They had been visiting the Monkey Temple. They walked out of the temple and that's when the earthquake hit. The temple is reduced to rubble, but they got out. They stayed the night on some grassed area with lots of other people, they are now at the Australian Embassy which has erected tents for everyone."

Advertisement

Embassy staff at Kathmandu were feeding the Australian travellers and trying to organise emergency flights out of the country.

"My mother rang my father from the embassy. There were hundreds of people trying to contact their families at home in Australia, so it has taken them a whole day to line up and use the communication," Ms Korpinen said.

The Canberra grandmother and grandson have been in Nepal for three weeks. Riitta Korpinen, who lectures on early childhood around the world, helped established a school within an orphanage where she had trained teachers.

Her grandson accompanied her to work at the orphanage, at Biratnagar. They later went to Kathmandu for a couple of days, and then to Pokhara, where they were staying when the earthquake struck.

The last time Ms Korpinen had heard from them was Wednesday when they were still in Pokhara.

Up until Wednesday it had been difficult at the best of times to keep in contact with them. Kiki Korpinen said internet connections and power were limited.

"The best way is Hamish has sent through a couple of messages on Facebook over the weeks, and we have been able to Skype message, but it is not always successful."

The number of Australians reported as missing by relatives on The Red Cross's Family Links website had reached 66 by Sunday morning.

The death toll was revised up to 1805 on Sunday morning, with more 4710 people injured. These figures are expected to rise as aid workers rush to the region.

Also among those unaccounted for are Zachary Sheridan, the younger brother of Packed to the Rafters star Hugh Sheridan, who reached out on social media to people to pray for his sibling.

Before she retired, Mrs Korpinen taught kindergarten at Orana School in Weston, Canberra, for more than 30 years and is an early childhood specialist. She helped write the curriculum for the orphanage school, as well as train its teaches.

Kiki Korpinen, a deputy chief executive for an Aboriginal health service, said Mr McKee planned on his return to enrol at University of Canberra to study psychology in the second semester.

When her mother and her son first arrived near Kathmandu, they visited a place where young girls who have been sex trafficked find salvation.

"They were happy to have a young man who was a good male role model for the girls, to shed light on the fact other men in world are not out to hurt them," Kiki Korpinen said.

​Mr McKee had also met up with other young men, they went on 10-km hikes and he had gone white-water rafting.

On Sunday, Canberra man William Sargent phoned multiple hotels in Nepal in search of his 19-year-old son Alan, who was in Chitwan National Park when the earthquake struck. At 6pm, he had good news: a phone call from Alan to say he and his travelling partner were safe and well.
</text>