<url>
http://www.themercury.com.au/news/tasmania/nepal-earthquake-desperate-search-for-survivors-continues/story-fnj4f7k1-1227322534125
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: desperate search for survivors continues
</headline>

<text>
3PM UPDATE:

ANOTHER Tasmanian listed as missing after Saturday’s devastating earthquake in Nepal has been able to make contact with family and friends.

CSIRO Marine and Atmosphere Research investigator Jessica Farley’s status on the Red Cross Family Links website has been updated from missing to “I’m alive”.

The 46-year-old, from Hobart, was one of four Tasmanians feared missing this morning.

Adam Cleaver, who grew up in Devonport but was based in Canberra, is also safe and well.

There are still concerns for the welfare of Launceston’s Julien Tempone-Wiltshire and Hobart’s Jenny Davson-Galle, who has been working in Nepal with the Red Cross since Janaury.

12PM UPDATE:

ONE of four Tasmanians listed as missing in Nepal on the Red Cross Family Links website has made contact with his family.

Gary Cleaver, the father of Adam Cleaver, who grew up in Devonport, let family and friends know this morning on social media that his son was safe and well.

On Facebook, Gary Cleaver said his son and his “lovely lady” were safe in Nepal.

“We were pretty worried. Out hearts go out to all the families that did not get such good news,” Mr Cleaver, who now lives in Perth, Western Australia, said.

Hobart women Jessica Farley, 46, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29, are still listed as missing on the Red Cross website along with Launceston man Julien Tempone-Whiltshire.

Mr Tempone-Whiltshire’s father Joe Tempone, a general practioner at a medical clinic in the Launceston suburb of Summerhill, did not want to comment on the situation in Nepal.

media_camera Julien Tempone-Whiltshire. Source: FACEBOOK

Ms Davson-Galle, who worked with the Red Cross assisting asylum seekers before going to Nepal, last made contact in Pokhara on April 11.

The Tasmanian Asylum Seeker Support (TASS) Facebook group has share its concern for her welfare, saying: “Dear Friends, TASS is anxiously waiting to hear about the safety of our wonderful supporter from Red Cross Jenny Davson-Galle who is posted as missing in the earthquake in Nepal. Our thoughts and prayers are with you.”

OVERNIGHT UPDATE:

THERE are fears for at least four Tasmanians in Nepal, which was hit by a horror earthquake that is thought to have killed almost 2000 people.

Hobart woman Amanda-Sue Markham said she was relieved to find out via social media that her younger sister, Ballantyne Forder, of Perth, Western Australia, was safe.

media_camera Ballantyne Forder. Source: FACEBOOK

MORE: HOBART WOMAN’S SISTER SURVIVES QUAKE

But Ms Markham is still worried about Ms Forder, a volunteer at a Kathmandu orphanage.

“There’s been some pretty nasty aftershocks and I’m getting pretty nervous,” she said.

Ms Markham said she was proud of her sister, who posted on Facebook that she, the orphanage children and some locals were camping in a field.

“She’s a 20-year-old young lady looking after an entire orphanage ... she’s amazing,” she said.

The world was last night rushing to help Nepal in the wake of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

MORE: SCARY MOMENT THE AVALANCHE HIT

MORE: SHOCKING SNAPS SHOW SCALE OF DISASTER

Tasmanians Adam Cleaver, of Devonport, Julien Tempone-Wiltshire, 24, Jessica Farley, 46, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29, were still listed as missing on the Red Cross Family Links website this morning, and there are fears held for dozens more Australians.

Offers of assistance have poured in from governments around the world, with Australia, the US and the EU sending disaster response teams to help recovery efforts.

More than 1900 have been confirmed dead with hundreds of Australians not yet confirmed safe and grave concerns held for at least 18 of them.

Another 40,000 locals and tourists are reportedly being treated for injuries while a ­desperate race against time is under way to save thousands trapped under rubble.

Hundreds of others are feared stranded on Mt Everest where the earthquake sparked a deadly avalanche, killing at least 17 and injuring dozens of others.

Wynyard’s Mark Freeman was relieved to hear his daughter, Eliza Freeman, 22, of Melbourne, was safe.

Mr Freeman said his daughter was trekking the Annapurna Circuit and said she didn’t feel the earthquake, although there were some avalanches on the track ahead of where she was.

Kingston’s Freya van de Vusse and Launceston’s Isabelle Roberts were also in Nepal, but both are safe.

media_camera Mountaineers and Nepalese Sherpa guides evacuated from Everest Base Camp wait to board a rescue chopper. Picture: AP

Foreign Minister Julie ­Bishop said the Australian Government would provide $5 million in humanitarian support to Nepal with a crisis response team to travel there as soon as possible.

CARE Nepal emergency ­response co-ordinator Santosh Sharma said almost everyone was being forced to sleep ­outside and create temporary shelters.

“I am seeing women, mothers and children suffering a lot … they are living outside their homes and are fearing to go ­inside,” Mr Sharma said.

“To deal with this, local people are mobilising their resources and are forming temporary shelters in the local areas around their house.

“Many people have gathered their cooking stoves and gas cylinders and are cooking outside their home.”
</text>