<url>
http://www.examiner.com.au/story/3037845/quake-fears-for-four-tasmanians/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Quake fears for four Tasmanians | Video
</headline>

<text>
Bridport volunteer Amy Barnes is alive and well in Nepal.

UPDATE: Devonport man Adam Cleaver, 31, has been found alive and well.

Launceston's Julien Tempone-Wiltshire, 24, Hobart's Jessica Farley, 46, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29, also from Hobart, remain listed as missing on the Red Cross' Family Links website.

EARLIER: A Launceston man is one of at least four Tasmanians feared missing in Nepal following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake on Saturday.

More than 1900 people were killed in the disaster near Kathmandu, while at least 4700 people were injured in what has been called the worst earthquake in Nepal in more than 80 years.

As of Sunday night, more than 350 Australians had been listed missing by Red Cross’ Family Links website.

Launceston’s Julien Tempone-Wiltshire, 24, has been reported missing, along with Devonport’s Adam Cleaver, 31, Hobart’s Jessica Farley, 46, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29, also from Hobart.

Mr Tempone-Wiltshire’s father, Dr Joe Tempone, said he had not heard from his son, but he was confident that Julien is alive.

‘‘Our son is over there, but we are sure he is safe,’’ Dr Tempone said. ‘‘We don’t suspect that he is anywhere near [Kathmandu]. He doesn’t keep in regular contact with us.’’

Launceston’s Isabelle Roberts, 21, was found in Pokhara, 207 kilometres north-west of Kathmandu, on Sunday afternoon.

Her mother, Annie Roberts, said she cried when she heard the news.

‘‘I am very, very grateful – utterly relieved,’’ she said.

‘‘Since we heard she was missing, we have just stayed by the phone. Her house is gone and so is everything she owns, but that’s not as important as her life.’’

Kingston’s Freya van der Vusse and Wynyard’s Eliza Freeman, both 22, along with Hobart’s Pasquale Heredia and Sascha Marcial Heredia, both 29, were also found alive and well on Sunday.

Bridport’s Amy Barnes was in Chitwan, five hours west of Kathmandu, when the earthquake struck, but she was not hurt.

The 23-year-old is volunteering in Nepal and said she was awoken by the massive quake.

‘‘It’s a bit overwhelming,’’ she said.

‘‘I feel safe where I am, but we’re not moving from here. I have made contact with my family, but I’m uncertain at this stage of how long I will be in Nepal.’’

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said no Australian deaths had been reported.

‘‘The Australian embassy in Nepal is providing assistance to Australians and has confirmed the safety of over 200,’’ a statement read.

‘‘I urge Australians concerned for the welfare of family and friends in Nepal to attempt to contact them directly.’’

Meanwhile, terrifying footage has emerged reportedly of the moment an earthquake-triggered avalanche hit Everest base camp, sending panicked climbers running for their lives.

German climber Jost Kobusch, 22, posted the 2½-minute video on his YouTube channel a day after the earthquake, along with the description: "The ground was shaking from the earthquake and as soon as we saw people running we were running ourselves to save our lives."

Anyone concerned for the welfare of a friend or family member in Nepal should call the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 62613305 or, within Australia, on 1300555135.


</text>