<url>
http://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/india-mounts-massive-relief-ops-pm-promises-all-help/72935.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
India mounts massive relief ops; PM promises all help
</headline>

<text>
Tribune News Service

NEW DELHI, APRIL 26

India has pulled out all stops to rescue people trapped in the rubble left by the devastating earthquake in Nepal. Civilian and military aircraft were pressed into service to transport relief material and ferry stranded citizens back home. Amid reports of mounting death toll on account of the Saturday tremor, relief operations had to be halted for a few hours after fresh quake forced authorities in Kathmandu close down the Tribhuvan International Airport. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the developing situation today. The Indian Air Force heavy-lift transport aircraft have brought back 1,050 people so far, with 546 being evacuated by last night, Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar told the media at a joint conference along with Home Secretary LC Goyal, Defence Secretary RK Mathur, DG Indian Metrological Department LS Rathore and others. Modi said efforts should be on speeding up work to save people and evacuate them from Nepal. Foreign Secretary said it has been decided to send an inter-ministry team to Nepal to coordinate relief work. The Indian Army on Saturday sent a Major General to be the interface with the Nepal Army, while Director General of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) OP Singh is also there in Kathmandu. Jaishankar said 504 people arrived today in two planes and more were on their way back home. The government has asked the Indian Embassy in Nepal to hire 35 buses and evacuate people through the Raxaul and Sonali routes. He said while the roads are operating, movement is slow on account of traffic and hampered by availability of adequate buses and drivers in Kathmandu. A total of 19 Indian military aircraft (13 fixed wing and six helicopters) are currently deployed for rescue and relief work, while another six helicopters are on standby. Three civilian aircraft, two operated by Air India and one by Jet, also assisted in evacuation with the public sector Air India, lowering its fare to bare minimum, the Foreign Secretary said. Three army field hospitals are in operation along with an Engineering Task Force, while a team of civilian medical doctors also reached there with 2 tonnes of medical supplies organised by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Indian Railways has sent 50 tonnes of drinking water, 10 tonnes of blankets and tents, and 22 tonnes of food material. Ten NDRF teams are already operating in Nepal, two each in Lalitpur and Kathmandu, three teams at Bhaktapur and remaining three are on standby. The Defence Secretary said while the NDRF DG was already in Kathmandu, reports so far said the NDRF personnel had rescued eight people and recovered 33 bodies.
</text>