<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/474067/dtc-bus-goes-missing-quake.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
DTC bus goes 'missing' in quake-hit Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
DTC bus goes 'missing' in quake-hit Kathmandu

Rahul Chhabra, New Delhi, Apr 26, 2015, DHNS: 2:11 IST

The fate of a Delhi-Kathmandu bus of the Delhi Transport Corporation remained unknown for over seven hours on Saturday while the quake shook major parts of Nepal and disrupted communication.



The bus had reached Kathmandu safely around 11:30 am on Saturday with about two dozen passengers but relatives of the passengers in Delhi got to know about their well-being only around 8 pm, after the central government helped the DTC collect information from Nepal, sources said.



The bus had left Delhi on Friday at 10 am and reached Kathmandu the next day around 11:30 am, minutes before the quake rocked the hill nation.



“There was anxiety and distress at our terminal where relatives of the passengers started gathering to collect information,” said a DTC employee, who confirmed that the daily service has now been suspended for some time in view of the quake.



“The Nepal bus which was supposed to leave Kathmandu on Saturday for coming to Delhi did not depart. So, the service will be partially disrupted,” he said.



The Delhi-Kathmandu luxury bus service was launched by the DTC on November 25 as part of the India-Nepal diplomatic engagement. The bus covers a distance of 1,250 km within 30 hours. The DTC bus leaves at 10 am every day and a trip costs Rs 2,300 per person for one way.



The bus halts at three places – Firozabad, Faizabad (Uttar Pradesh) and Mugling (Nepal). In addition, the bus stops at Sanouli (India-Nepal border) for customs checking.



An official at the Ambedkar Bust Terminal of DTC said the relatives of passengers who had gone to Kathmandu on our bus could not contact them due to disruption of telecommunication services. “They rushed here after seeing the visuals on TV and sought help from us,” he said.



“Our heart beats rose as we got the confirmation from all the halt points of the bus that it had come and moved on for the journey to Kathmandu. The driver’s phone could not be reached and this gave us a lot of stress,” the official added.



Some of the relatives of passengers said the Nepal Embassy officials failed to help them locate their dear ones in Kathmandu. DTC officials informed Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung’s secretariat to seek help from the home ministry and external affairs ministry to trace the bus.



“It was only around 7-8 pm that we got the news about the passengers’ safety,” said Tara, a Nepalese national, whose relatives had gone to Kathmandu on the DTC bus.
</text>