<url>
http://breaking.tcm.ie/ireland/goal-sends-response-team-to-nepal-dept-of-foreign-affairs-sets-up-helpline-674398.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
GOAL sends response team to Nepal; Dept of Foreign Affairs sets up helpline
</headline>

<text>
GOAL has dispatched an emergency response team to Nepal to support relief efforts following the worst earthquake to hit the country in 80 years.

The 7.9-magnitute quake, which struck earlier today less than 50 miles from the capital, Kathmandu, and has destroyed homes, temples and other buildings.

Almost 1,500 people are already confirmed dead, with many more trapped, missing and seriously injured.

GOAL CEO, Barry Andrews, said: "We have spoken with local agencies on the ground who have confirmed that hospitals are overrun and that huge numbers of people have been left homeless and are sleeping rough.

"Recovery teams are continuing to search desperately for survivors trapped in the rubble, a task that has been compounded by the fact that the entire city is without electricity.

"We have also received reports that a large number of villages on the outskirts of the capital have been completely flattened. Unfortunately, we are expecting the numbers of dead and injured to rise significantly in the coming hours.”

Deaths have also been reported on Mount Everest, and in India, China, Bangladesh and Tibet.

Those who wish to donate to GOAL’s Nepal Earthquake relief effort can do so by visiting the GOAL website on www.goalglobal.org.

Oxfam Ireland has launched an emergency appeal and their team in Nepal is assessing what is needed.

Also, a team of technical experts is preparing to travel to Nepal with supplies of clean water, shelter, sanitation and emergency food.

Oxfam Ireland Chief Executive Jim Clarken said: “Unfortunately, we know that the death toll is set to rise significantly. There are reports of people still trapped in the rubble, with over 1,000 people killed so far and many more injured. Many poor and vulnerable people are homeless and without shelter.

“At present only reports from Kathmandu and nearby towns are available, so the exact numbers of those killed or injured will not become clear until aid workers can reach other areas. The relief teams’ work is hampered by the avalanches and landslides which have affected road access. Helicopter access has also proven difficult.”

Cecilia Keizer, Oxfam country director in Nepal said: “Communication is currently very difficult. Telephone lines are down and the electricity has been cut off. The water is also cut off. The number of people killed is continuing to rise.

“Many of the old houses have been destroyed and at least one large apartment block has come down in Kathmandu. Given the closeness to the epicentre Pokhara must also be badly affected. People are gathered in their thousands in open spaces and are scared as there have been many aftershocks”.

Jim Clarken added: “The scene is one of utter devastation, according to colleagues on the ground. It’s now a race against time to save lives and to get help to the communities overwhelmed by tragedy on a massive scale.”

Oxfam Ireland has launched an emergency appeal and is asking the Irish public to give what they can to fund the disaster response by donating online at www.oxfamireland.org, by phone on 1850 30 40 55 or at their local Oxfam shop.

Following #NepalQuake we are already in touch with @UN and NGO partners on how Ireland can best assist in the coming days — Irish Aid (@Irish_Aid) April 25, 2015

Meanwhile, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Charlie Flanagan, has offered his sympathies to those affected by the earthquake.

Mr Flanagan says his department is working through Ireland's Embassy in New Delhi to provide assistance to any Irish affected.

Minister Flanagan says anyone concerned about friends or family in the region can contact the Department of Foreign Affairs on 01-418 0200.

Speaking on the earthquake in Nepal, Minister Flanagan said: "My thoughts are with all those affected by the earthquake in Nepal, and in particular with the loved ones of those who have lost their lives in this tragic event. The situation on the ground in Nepal is still unfolding and my Department is working through our Embassy in New Delhi to provide assistance to any Irish affected.

"We are consulting with the UN and NGO partners to see how Ireland can best assist in the region.

"The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has put in place an emergency response team in Dublin to handle calls from citizens or family members concerned for citizens whom they believe may be in the affected region.

"The Embassy of Ireland in New Delhi which is accredited to Nepal is liaising with actors on the ground, including EU Member States and other international partners in Nepal. Anyone concerned about friends or family in the region can contact the Department on 01-418 0200."
</text>