<url>
http://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/nepal-earthquake-around-50-irish-5585275
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Families of 100 Irish citizens caught up in devastated region anxiously wait to hear from them
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Panicked families of Irish citizens caught up in quake-hit Nepal were last night still desperately waiting to hear from them.

More than 2,000 people are believed to have perished after a powerful 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the Kathmandu area of Nepal on Saturday.

But that death toll is expected to grow when the true extent of the horror is known.

A total 100 Irish travellers are in the disaster-hit region near the Himalayan Mountain range and while most have been reported safe and well, the Department of Foreign Affairs confirmed that it has been unable to establish contact with every single Irish citizen in the devastated region.

Follow our news updates about the Nepal earthquake on our blog as the search for survivors continues

Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan said: “Communications lines have been affected so this is an ongoing process that may take some time.

“We will continue to provide consular advice and assistance over the coming days as the situation evolves.”

Minister Flanagan said the government is working closely with the UN on how Ireland can best assist in the coming days.

(Image: Gareth Chaney Collins)

He added: “An emergency Consular Response Team was established in my Department and will remain in place for as long as necessary to assist citizens who may be affected and their families.

“The Department is aware of some 50 citizens in the affected region. Contact has already been established with many of them.

“Our Consular Response Team in Dublin is liaising closely with our team at the Embassy of Ireland in New Delhi which is accredited to Nepal.”

Irish priest Fr Tom Dalton, 45, is among a group of nine hillwalkers from Courtown, Co Wexford who miraculously survived the horrifying quake.

Fr Dalton told his sister Joan at home in Wexford that the group was “very lucky” to escape injury.

He said they were now trying to get a flight home, but all the airports have been closed because of the earthquake.

And Ian Taylor, and Irish professional climber who escorts mountaineers and trekkers to the Himalayas, described how buildings collapsed around him.

He revealed: “I was sitting in the hotel lobby. We could barely get to open ground when it struck. I had two terrified people hanging off me. The hotel shook violently. I watched as two buildings crashed to the ground.”

International charities and volunteers are expected to arrive in Nepal on Monday.

Irish aid agency GOAL has dispatched an emergency response team to support relief efforts.

GOAL chief Barry Andrews said last night: “We have spoken with local agencies on the ground who have confirmed that hospitals are overrun and that huge numbers of people have been left homeless and are sleeping rough.

“Recovery teams are continuing to search desperately for survivors trapped in the rubble, a task that has been compounded by the fact that the entire city is without electricity.

“We have also received reports that a large number of villages on the outskirts of the capital have been completely flattened. Unfortunately, we are expecting the numbers of dead and injured to rise significantly in the coming hours.”

Nepal bore the brunt of the quake’s impact with some 2,000 dead and more than 5,000 injured and the toll is expected to climb as more reports come in from far-flung areas.

Among the dead are at least 17 who were struck by a quake-triggered avalanche on Mount Everest that buried part of the base camp packed with foreigners at the end of the climbing season.

The magnitude 7.8 earthquake, which originated outside the capital Kathmandu, was the worst to hit the poor Himalayan nation in over 80 years.

It destroyed the historic part of the city and was strong enough to be felt across the northern part of neighbouring India, Bangladesh, China’s region of Tibet and Pakistan, where a total of 60 people died.

Local Sundar Sah revealed: “There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried.

“I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive.”

Anyone who is concerned about Irish family or friends in the region can contact the Department on 01 418 0200.

To donate to Oxfam Ireland, visit www.oxfamireland.org.

Those who wish to donate to GOAL’s Nepal Earthquake relief effort can do so by visiting the GOAL website on www.goalglobal.org
</text>