<url>
http://www.daijiworld.com/news/news_disp.asp?n_id=314690
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Indian Air Force planes fetch 546 people back from Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi, Apr 26 (IANS): Indian Air Force planes have fetched around 546 of its citizens, including several infants, back from quake-hit Kathmandu since late Saturday with more sorties firmed up during Sunday, officials here said.

The first Indian Air Force plan to arrive from the Nepalese capital was a C-130J Super Hercules with 55 passengers, including fur infants, on board at around 10.45 p.m., followed by a C-17 Globemaster III, a little after midnight with 101 passengers and an infant.

In the early hours of Sunday, an IL-76 aircraft brought back 152 passengers. And at around 4.45 a.m., another C-17 Globemaster III returned with 247 Indians.

The Indian defence forces, meanwhile decided to step up their search, rescue and humanitarian efforts in Nepal on Sunday, which was hit by a devastating earthquake just before noon on Saturday, leaving behind a trail of death and destruction.

"Ten flights are planned for Kathmandu today. These would be airlifting army forward hospitals, engineering task forces, water, food, National Disaster Response Force teams, medical personnel and equipment, blankets and tents," said Sitanshu Kar, the spokesperson for the defence ministry.

Sunday's sorties will also involve choppers. Kar said six MI helicopters stationed at Gorakhpur, in north-west Uttar Pradesh, and another six at various places were on standby to be pressed into service.

The first to fly out to Kathmandu was a light MI chopper, followed by five MI-17 helicopters from Gorakhpur. "India will also be augmenting rescue efforts by pressing into service four more helicopters, including two Indian Air Force ALH Dhruvs later in the day," Kar said.

Over 1,500 people were killed and thousands were injured when a massive earthquake -- lasting about 20 frightening seconds -- and several strong aftershocks caused widespread destruction in Nepal. India was also affected.

The quake measured 7.9 on the Richter scale. The epicentre was Nepal's Lamjung district, some 75 km northwest of capital Kathmandu. Over 50 aftershocks were also felt.



India sends 'Rail Neer' water to quake-hit Nepal

Indian Railways, which produces its own packaged drinking water to serve its passengers, dispatched some 100,000 bottles of 'Rail Neer' to quake-hit Nepal on Saturday night through a special Indian Air Force aircraft that also carried other relief operations.

"Arrangements being made for further dispatch of 100,000 bottles per day to supplement the rescue efforts of the Government of India," Railways Minister Suresh Prabhu said.

Rail Neer is produced by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd.



India's aid to Nepal named 'Operation Maitri'

The Indian Army has named the aid to Nepal 'Operation Maitri' or friendship, a day after it started extending help to the neighbouring country that was hit by a massive earthquake just before noon on Saturday, leaving a trail of death and destruction.

In addition to the specialist teams of its National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), India has already moved large amounts of relief material to the Himalayan kingdom, besides its Air Force moving essential supplies to Nepal and flying back over 500 of its stranded citizens from its capital Kathmandu since late Saturday.

"India is moving in massive amount of rescue and relief material, equipment and specialists the second day (Sunday)," said Sitanshu Kar, the spokesperson for the defence ministry.

"Ten flights are planned for Kathmandu today (Sunday). These would be airlifting army's forward hospitals, engineering task forces, water, food, National Disaster Response Force teams, medical personnel and equipment, blankets and tents."
</text>