<url>
http://www.northerndailyleader.com.au/story/3040591/nepal-news-safe-and-well/?cs=4141
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal news: safe and well
</headline>

<text>
A MOONBI family are utterly relieved after they spent days anxiously awaiting word from their daughter, who was reported missing in Nepal following Kathmandu’s devastating earthquake.



LUCKY COUPLE: The families of former Moonbi woman Ali Thorpe and her partner, New Zealander Richard Curtis, were relieved to hear their children survived Nepal’s crippling earthquake, which claimed at least 3200 lives.

Former Oxley High School student Ali Thorpe, 25, was travelling in Nepal with her New Zealander boyfriend Richard Curtis when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit, killing thousands.

The pair – both paramedics – were trekking the remote Annapurna Circuit from April 20 and were not expected to have phone reception again until next week, around May 4.

Yesterday evening the family received word through Mr Curtis’ Facebook page the couple were safe and sound.

“Ali and I are both safe and absolutely well,” Mr Curtis wrote.

“We ... just crossed the pass to get Internet. A bit hairy at times but looks like we were lucky!”

But an Armidale-born man, Patrick Waterman, 61, is still listed as missing on the Nepal Earthquake: Restoring Family Links registry.

Ali’s younger sister Belle Thorpe said though the family had reason to be hopeful for the pair’s safety, the welcome news ended their days of torturous uncertainty.

“We’re just so relieved,” Ms Thorpe said.

“We’re so thankful that they’re alive and well.

“It’s amazing.”

Ms Thorpe said the pair, while safe, were not at the end of their ordeal and would need to devise a way out of Nepal, though they planned to finish the Annapurna hike first.

Prior to receiving the good news, Ms Thorpe told The Leader the family were trying to remain calm and hopeful.

“Obviously we’re thinking about her every minute,” she said.

“We were very worried ... but they’re trained paramedics – they’ve got to look after themselves and the people around them. “They’re very capable in a crisis, they act on the adrenalin.”

The “outdoorsy” and “adventurous” couple recently embarked on a world tour, beginning in Nepal two months ago with plans to continue on to India and South East Asia.

Mr Curtis’s hometown newspaper, The Bay of Plenty Times, yesterday reported the Curtis family were also nervously waiting for their son to contact them, having last heard from him on April 14 when the couple arrived in Kathmandu after scaling Mount Everest’s Base Camp.

The popular trekking site was shrouded in snow and rocks as avalanches wreaked havoc on Saturday, triggered by the aftershocks of the initial earthquake.

The Australian Embassy in Nepal has confirmed the safety of 200 Australians out of 549 who are registered as travelling in Nepal.
</text>