<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Nepal-earthquake-81-years-later-tragedy-revisits-the-head-of-sky/articleshow/47056222.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 81 years later, tragedy revisits the head of sky
</headline>

<text>
From Sagarmatha (head of the sky), the Nepali name for Mt Everest, to the Indian frontiers, Nepal lies in ruins. Saturday's earthquake has wrought death and devastation; it has destroyed a part of the landlocked nation's history as well. The number of casualties, and cracking and crashing of houses continues to grow by the hour.At Sundhara near the Army headquarters in Kathmandu, the Bhimsen Tower, popularly known as Dharhara, is reduced to rubble. The nine-storey structure was built by PM Bhimsen Thapa. This was Nepalis' answer to Kolkata's Ochterlony Monument (later renamed Shahid Minar by Bengal's Communists). The East India Company had built it in memory of Gen David Ochterlony who defeated Nepal in the 1814-16 Anglo-Gurkha war.A little south of Kasthamandap, a shrine that gave the city its name, many ancient temples lie flattened.Kasthamandap is dedicated to Guru Gorakhnath (guardian deity of the Gorkhas). The nearby Hanuman Dhoka Durbar (old palace) stands damaged.The Patan Durbar Square, 4km south of Hanuman Dhoka, and Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, too are a picture of devastation. Restoration of these great icons of Newar civilization is near impossible. Destruction in the verdant hills lying between Kathmandu in the east and Pokhara in the west is equally shattering. This stretch and beyond in the west is known as the nursery of Gorkha soldiers who serve in the Indian, British and Nepali armies.Nepal has more than 100,000 veterans from the Indian armed forces. Most of them collect pension from the military pension office of the Indian embassy in Pokhara. Britain too runs a recruitment centre in this picturesque town.Both countries are concerned about their serving and retired fighters.News of death and destruction continues to pour in from remote Rasua on the Tibetan border to Morang right next to Bihar's Araria district. At Janakpur close to Bihar's Sitamarhi, the tip of the Janaki Temple (where, some claimed, Sita was born) is damaged.Equally disturbing are the reports of the death of mountaineers. The intensity of the quake was so big that over a dozen villagers died on the Tibetan plateau across the Himalayas.The images of destruction take the Nepalese back to the quake of 1934 when over 10,000 people died, mostly in Kathmandu Valley. Those days the Himalayan nation was in the dark age of Rana rule. Eighty-one years later, it has a people's government, though without a constitution. But tragedy remains the same.
</text>