<url>
http://www.indystar.com/story/news/2015/04/26/hoosier-climbers-safe-nepal-earthquake/26421097/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Hoosier climbers safe after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Group that had been en route to Mount Everest Base Camp is coming back down the mountain, daughter of one member says.

A small avalanche on Pumori mountain is seen from Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Sunday, April 26, 2015. On Saturday, a large avalanche triggered by Nepal's massive earthquake slammed into a section of the Mount Everest mountaineering base camp, killing a number of people and left others unaccounted for. (Photo: Azim Afif via AP)

A group of Hoosier climbers was approaching the Mount Everest Base Camp on Saturday when a deadly magnitude-7.8 earthquake rocked Nepal. All members of that group are safe, family members said Sunday.

The group is being led by David Carter, owner of Carter Lee Lumber in Indianapolis, who came close to death on two previous trips to climb Everest.

The quake that struck about noon local time Saturday has left more than 2,500 dead and 5,900 injured in Nepal and neighboring countries.

It also triggered an avalanche on Everest that plowed into the base camp, killing at least 18 climbers and injuring dozens of others.

Hannah Robey said Sunday that her father, John Robey, was among a group of 11 climbers and five sherpas on a trail heading to the base camp when the earthquake hit.

At least four of the climbers in the group are from Indiana. The group's leader, Carter, successfully scaled Everest in 1997 but nearly suffocated several times on the descent, perilously sick with a respiratory infection on top of suffering from malnutrition, dehydration and exhaustion.

He had attempted the climb in 1991 to fulfill a childhood dream but turned back after becoming sick in the high altitude.

Hannah Robey said she last heard from her father and the rest of the group Saturday after the earthquake. She said they were safe and working their way down the mountain.

Other messages from friends and family members posted on a website providing regular updates about the trip also indicate that the group is safe. The last travel log from Carter's group was posted Thursday as the climbers trekked from Tengboche to Dingboche.

Charles Hasbrook, an Indianapolis doctor, and Ace Yakey, Lilly Endowment vice president for community development, were listed on the website as members of the group. Hasbrook's wife, Debbie, posted Saturday on Facebook that her husband and the others were fine.

As survivors made their way off Mount Everest on Sunday, some warned that dozens of people who were on the mountain might still be missing.

Sunday aftershocks, including one of magnitude 6.7, made rescue attempts difficult. At least 15 injured climbers returned to Kathmandu.

Before Saturday's earthquake, the single deadliest incident in the history of Everest happened on April 18, 2014, when an avalanche claimed the lives of 16 Nepalese sherpas, ending the 2014 climbing season.

In 2013, 658 reached the peak of Mount Everest, with hundreds of others making an attempt.

Witnesses said Saturday's avalanche began on Mount Pumori, a 22,966-foot mountain just a few miles from Everest, gathering strength as it headed toward base camp and the lower reaches of Everest's climbing routes.

Numerous climbers remained stranded Sunday on routes above base camp, but teams in contact by satellite telephones said no one was thought to be in danger or running short of supplies.

USA TODAY contributed to this story.

Call Star reporter Justin L. Mack at (317) 444-6138. Follow him on Twitter: @justinlmack.

Read or Share this story: http://indy.st/1zaFWjo
</text>