<url>
http://www.gazettenet.com/home/17009935-95/buddhist-monk-who-studied-at-hampshire-college-recalls-terrifying-april-earthquake-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
CONWAY — After spending three years as a visiting scholar at Hampshire College in Amherst and then beginning his study
</headline>

<text>
Buddhist monk who studied at Hampshire College recalls terrifying April earthquake in Nepal

CONWAY — After spending three years as a visiting scholar at Hampshire College in Amherst and then beginning his study of Tibetan medicine here, Buddhist monk Nuptul Tenpei Nyima returned last month to Sangchen Rabten Norbuling Monastery, where he is an abbot, in the Himalayas of Nepal.



He arrived at the monastery after five or six days of trekking in the Katmandu Valley on April 24, one day before the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that has cost thousands of lives.



“It was really a scary and frightening experience,” said Nuptul, a bespectacled 30-year-old monk who wears the veneration title “Rinpoche,” or “precious one” as modestly as the crimson robe, covered with a rose-colored sweatshirt, at Conway’s Tsegyalgar Dzogchen center. He returned there this month to continue studying at the Shangshung Institute of Tibetan medicine.



His monastery of about 130 monks and nuns, to which he had returned for the nine-day Drubchen observance of continuous prayer, had begun to gather for lunch on April 25 when “suddenly I could hear the sound, ‘tsi, tsi, tsi,’ ” recalled Nuptul, who had experienced earthquakes before in his native Nepal. “I realized it is an earthquake. I want all my friends to be calm. It was getting more violent, getting worse. I could hear so many terrible sounds, then the buildings started shaking, and it was really, really bad, so then I asked everybody to move out from the buildings. Then some people started in like a panic.”



As he ran out, he said he saw rocks falling from the surrounding steep mountains — the monastery is at an altitude of over 12,000 feet on Mount Manaslu, the world’s eighth highest peak, near the Tibetan border.



“It is a very steep, rocky mountain, and everything is falling down,” he said. “It’s really frightening. I just remember once looking at the mountains, thinking this is probably the last day on this earth. It looks like we’re all going to be buried here.”



Nuptul began looking after the monastery’s 40 children, as young as 6 years old, who were seeking shelter in the buildings “because the mountains are just shaking, like this. I just want everyone to be safe. I wasn’t really sure whether we will escape or die in that moment, because once the mountains collapse, everyone’s going to be buried. … We’re standing in the middle of a (mountainous) cup. The mountains are very close to the temple.”



After rounding up the children and getting them back outdoors, under a tent, he entered the monastery’s small retreat center, where 10 monks and eight nuns were in two separate groups taking part in ritual prayers for the continuous nine-day Drubchen observance.



“They are not allowed to go outside,” he said. “They are not allowed to have visitors in. I ran into the monks’ retreat; they were fine, they were very calm, holding their malas (beads) … with long hair and long beards, in very, very good shape.”



But when he looked in on the eight young nuns, he said, “They were like puppies, all stuck to each other, scared, crying. I told them not to worry. We are all safe. One of the nuns is telling me she is really afraid, and I told her not to worry, I guarantee it won’t happen again. I just want them to be calm, but I am not sure. Everyone remained in the retreat center.”



Incredibly, he said, the monastery’s 40-year-old wood-and-stone temple was not damaged, and no one was injured. Even the mandala inside remained intact.



There was damage to some of the smaller buildings, like the monks’ retreat center. Nuptul said he and two other monks repaired the retreat building on the first day of the earthquake.



“I was scared, but I knew they were so faithful, they wanted to continue prayer, day and night. I always put someone outside, if anything happened, to ask them to come out. I told the chanting masters, if anything begins to shake, please don’t wait for it to collapse, just come out.”



Tremors continued nearly every day, he said, with everyone’s confidence gradually increasing.



Yet the surrounding villages — the closest of which are normally at least six hours away by foot — were badly damaged, with more than 8,500 deaths, many injuries, and nearly 90 percent of houses destroyed.



“Most (people) are crying, ‘What can we do?’ There is nothing we can do. ... Just don’t go into the house,” he said, turning to his phone to show photos of the injured. “The people suffered a lot: the animals, the people squeezed into one tent. Some have no tent, nothing.”



Then, incredibly, began a snowfall, which the monk said “was really a shocking thing for me” in April. It reminded him of the prophecy of a dark period of degeneration he had heard when he was about 14 years old, from an old woman: “There will be a day when everything is changing, when there will be snowfall during the summertime.”



After one of his California friends, who had traveled with him to the monastery, telephoned the U.S. embassy, Naptul was airlifted out to Katmandu by helicopter on May 1, returning to Massachusetts a couple of days later on his prearranged flight, just before a second major earthquake struck.



“It was very difficult for me to leave, but there was nothing I can do there, but better for me to go out so at least I can help them, I can spread messages, talk to people, tell them what is there,” said Naptul, who has not heard from his sister or father in their small village of Lho since his return because their phone service was knocked out in an aftershock. “I knew winter is coming soon and the biggest challenge will be shelter.”



The monk has set up a website for his monastery to accept donations, which he plans to use in rebuilding that housing in early October.



“The very amazing thing is that during this disaster, the monks are always on the front line, before the army, before the police, because they give up everything, they just go,” said Naptul, speaking mostly about their efforts in the cities, cooking, providing tents and digging out the rubble, eventually making their way to hard-to-reach villages. “Just out of empathy and compassion. They just run. It’s a very dangerous place.



“Our first priority,” he added, “is to help the villages.”



On the Web: www.kyimolung.org/earthquake-relief.html










</text>