<url>
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2015/04/27/5-things-to-know-monday/26424241/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
5 things you need to know Monday
</headline>

<text>
A courtroom sketch from Jan. 20, 2015, shows accused murderer James Holmes, left, sitting with Tamara Brady, Arapahoe County public defender, at the Arapahoe District Courthouse in Centennial, Colo. (Photo: Jeff Kandyba, European Pressphoto Agency)

1. Colorado theater shooting trial starts



Nearly three years after police arrested James Holmes outside a suburban Denver movie theater where he is accused of shooting and killing 12 people, prosecutors are set to lay out why they believe jurors should order his execution. Opening statements begin Monday afternoon in the slow-moving case against Holmes, who is also accused of injuring about 70 others as he rampaged through the movie theater during a midnight showing of The Dark Knight Rises. Holmes, a former neuroscience graduate student, has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, and defense lawyers argue he was in the grips of a psychotic episode when he entered the theater and opened fire.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The trial for Aurora theater shooting suspect James Holmes begins Monday following three years of legal wrangling over mental illness and capital punishment. Holmes has pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. (April 27) AP

2. Freddie Gray's funeral set for Monday

The funeral for Freddie Gray, a black Baltimore man who died of injuries sustained in police custody, will take place Monday. The family is accepting donations online to help defray medical and burial costs. Gray's family began formally saying goodbye Sunday with a wake held hours after a largely peaceful protest over his death disintegrated into chaos on Baltimore streets. "He left behind a grief-stricken family, a heart-broken fiancée, and a sorrowful step-daughter-to-be," says the donation website. "The Gray family appreciates your support." The police department has promised extra security following Saturday's upheaval.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A wake was held in Baltimore for Freddie Gray on Sunday. Protesters took a break from their marching, at the request of Gray's family, and many went to pay their respects. VPC

3. U.S. aid expected to arrive in Nepal



The Pentagon dispatched a cargo plane to Nepal with about 70 disaster-relief and rescue personnel and their gear to aid the earthquake-ravaged country, as the international response to the disaster gears up. The Air Force C-17 is expected to arrive in Nepal on Monday, according to Army Col. Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman. The Pentagon effort comes after the U.S. Embassy in Nepal announced it had already released an initial $1 million for immediate assistance. Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates deployed an 88-member search-and-rescue team, the Emirates Red Crescent sent a team, France said it would send 11 rescuers, Britain announced an advance team of eight had been sent and that a $ 7.6 million aid package would be available and Australia has pledged $5 million in aid.

4. Loretta Lynch to be sworn in as attorney general

Vice President Biden will swear in Loretta Lynch as the 83rd attorney general Monday in a ceremony at the Department of Justice. It look five months from her nomination for the Senate to confirm Lynch on a final vote of 56-43 — that's longer than it took the previous seven attorneys general combined. The long-delayed vote for Lynch, Brooklyn's chief federal prosecutor, prompted a firestorm of criticism from Democrats and some Republicans, highlighting a political paralysis that often grips the Capitol. Lynch will be the first African-American woman to become attorney general in U.S. history and she has vowed to confront the long-simmering racial tensions involving law enforcement's dealings in minority communities.

5. A big day for Apple investors



Apple earnings are out Monday, and investors are eagerly awaiting to see how its second-quarter results measure up with the previous quarter when the company reported the largest profit in corporate history — a whopping $18 billion — thanks to the sale of 74.5 million iPhones. Although no one is expecting a repeat of those kind of sales, which included the holidays, analysts are calling for the company to report 29.5% higher adjusted earnings of $2.15 a share. If Apple delivers the profit as expected, Apple's profit will be 5.2% of the Standard & Poor's 500 total earnings, says Howard Silverblatt of S&P Dow Jones indices. That's greater than the contribution of the next two biggest earners — combined — J.P. Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo.

(Photo: Stephen Lam, Getty Images)

And, the essentials:

Weather: The national weather forecast for Monday calls for strong storms from Texas to Alabama and showers for New England. South Florida continues to see temps in the 90s.

Stocks: U.S. stock futures were higher Monday.

TV Tonight: Can't decide what to watch tonight? TV critic Robert Bianco looks atGotham and Mike & Molly.

If you missed this weekend's news, we've got you covered here.

Need a break? Try playing some of our games.

You can also subscribe to get the day's top news each weekday in your inbox or find us on the Yo! app: justyo.co/usatoday

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Gx8OSw
</text>