<url>
http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/nepal-earthquake-thousands-dead-as-78-magnitude-earthquake-hits-near-kathmandu/story-e6frea6u-1227322488107?nk=4e6c9625998c41c20b3e93c73ebd58e1
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Kathmandu region hit by massive quake
</headline>

<text>
SHOCKING footage has emerged of the moment an avalanche swept into Everest Base Camp after the earthquake.

One expert estimates the city of Kathmandu shifted three metres in 30 seconds when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck.

University of Colorado geologist Roger Bilham has told The Washington Post a block of Earth’s crust, about 120 miles long and 60 kilometres wide, shifted roughly three metres south, taking the Nepalese capital and millions of inhabitants with it.

“The earthquake ruptured under the city, very close to the city, so this is as bad as our worst-case scenario, probably,” Mr Billham said.

media_camera “The ground is shaking” ... Jost Kobusch, 22, was at the Everest base camp in Nepal on Saturday when the avalanche hit.

German climber Jost Kobusch was filming the lower slopes of the world’s highest mountain when a mass of snow rushed in with a force described as being like a “nuclear blast”.

The mountaineer is seen running for cover in his tent before being enveloped in a blanket of icy material.

Mr Kobusch is heard saying “hold on to my jacket” as the wind threatens to blow his colleague away.

Both are believed to have escaped serious injury but 18 other climbers are known to have died.

Australian authorities have confirmed more than 830 Australians in Nepal are safe, there were 549 registered travellers there and there are still about 200 believed missing.

media_camera Challenging ... International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into Nepal. AFP PHOTO / PRAKASH SINGH

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said authorities have taken calls from more than 1250 families and friends of missing Australians in the country and are trying to get in touch with all of them.

The embassy in Kathmandu is providing consular assistance to several Australians.

A government official has said the total death toll from Nepal earthquake has risen to 3617.

An Australian however is reportedly among 18 people killed at Mount Everest’s base camp in a quake-triggered avalanche.

“I do hold grave fears for the welfare of one Australian who was known to be at the Mount Everest base camp where a number of deaths have occurred,” Julie Bishop said.

“We are currently working to confirm this person’s identity.”

Ms Bishop would not reveal further details on the Australian believed in trouble in Nepal, saying the person’s family needed to first be contacted.

“The details are very sketchy at this stage. You must understand that communications are very difficult and we need to have people on the ground to verify that,” she said.

media_camera Homeless ... The earthquake destroyed many homes and buildings leaving people with nowhere to go. Picture: AFP/ DIPTENDU DUTTA

A team of nine crisis experts from the Department of Foreign Affairs were on their way to the disaster zone to assist in recovery efforts.

“They are scheduled to arrive in Kathmandu today and this team will as a priority, assist in establishing the safety and welfare of Australians currently unaccounted for after the earthquake,” Ms Bishop said.

Temba Tsheri, a sherpa from the Dreamers’ Destination Treks and Expeditions, says an Australian was part of his group on the mountain.

“I have lost four team members in the avalanche — two Nepalis, one Chinese and Australian,” he said on Sunday.

A DFAT crisis response team has been deployed to Nepal to help establish the welfare of Australians unaccounted for.

Actor Hugh Sheridan has flown to Nepal to try and locate his brother who was at the Mount Everest base camp when the quake hit.

HUGH SHERIDAN

“Thank you everyone for your messages and your kind words. I’m on my way to Nepal now and will head toward base camp to try and find Zachary. I will be with a small crew helping with a chopper, a dr and we will have a satellite phone available for any Australian there who needs to reach home and tell their loved ones they’re ok, I know so many of us are still waiting to hear but communication is down. Stay positive everyone, I feel optimistic that he is alive and stuck. I know that the news have been eager to talk to my mum but it would be respectful to leave her alone at this time. My heart goes out to every family who is still waiting to hear, I can’t imagine how they feel at Mt Everest. I’m looking forward to seeing my little brother and getting him out safely.

This was the last picture he sent me, he sure captured her beauty. #family #nepal #australia #speaklove” Hugh Sheridan captioned his Instagram photo.

There are about a dozen West Australians still missing after the earthquake.

media_camera Need help ... There are fears water and hospital supplies could soon run out. Picture: AFP/ DIPTENDU DUTTA

Blake Penson, 34, managed to call his parents in Perth with a satellite phone from Mount Everest Camp 2, about 1000 metres above base camp, soon after the first tremor struck on Saturday.

But his father Michael Penson said they have not heard from him since and are concerned because aftershocks and avalanches have destroyed the route between the bases.

“They can’t climb up and can’t climb down,” Mr Penson said.

He is considering flying to Nepal to find his son but the Department of Foreign Affairs has told him the country is in chaos — no power, no communications and road blocks everywhere.

Up to 15 West Australians are registered as missing by loved ones on a Red Cross website.

Ballantyne Paige Forder, 22, Callumn Shally, 21, Shannen Wynne, 20, and Karen Lee Jury, 44, are among those from WA who have been able to get in touch with family back home.

media_camera Stranded ... Nepalese people gather near temporary shelters set up in open areas of an Army ground in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/PRAKASH MATHEMA

Ms Jury’s mother Heather told AAP it was a huge relief when Karen, who had been volunteering in the Mustang District near Kathmandu, messaged her on Facebook on Sunday.

“She was actually river rafting when it happened and they spent the night on the banks of the river,” Ms Jury said.

“She’s staying there, she’s not even going to try and get into the city for a couple of days.

“It was a huge relief, we always hoped for the best but not knowing where she was, was the worst.”

Other Australian survivors who have been able to make contact with the outside world have described harrowing scenes.

media_camera Will leave as soon as she can ... Australian teenager, Alyssa, is safe but stuck on Mount Everest her father says. Picture: David Martinelli

Camille Thomas was at a guesthouse in Langtang village, just north of the capital Kathmandu, when the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit.

“We ran and hid under some stuff and it all started coming down,” she told 3AW radio on Monday.

“Snow and rocks and houses, everything. An avalanche.” She said the destruction around Langtang was heart breaking. “From where we were, there was nothing you could see. All the villages were gone.” Len Forder’s 20-year-old daughter Ballantyne is now camping out with orphans from the refuge where she was volunteering.

“We really haven’t spoken with Billie but there has been contact, we do know she’s alive. We’re not out of the woods by any means, we’ve still got to get her to safety,” he told 6PR radio in Perth.

The father of a Queensland teenager who is in Nepal, attempting to become the youngest Australian to climb Mount Everest, says she will leave as soon as she can.

media_camera Rescue efforts continue ... Nepalese rescue personnel help a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP/ PRAKASH MATHEMA

But Glenn Azar says it could be a week or so until 18-year-old Alyssa can get off the mountain where so many have died.

Mr Azar says she was lucky she was climbing when the deadly avalanche hit.

He says she and other survivors will likely have to wait as emergency teams focus on the national response to the earthquake disaster.

“A lot of the climbers up on the mountain just have to sit put. It could be a week,” he told the ABC.

“A lot of the sherpas who are with Alyssa still want to climb. But I don’t think that’s a reality.”

Actionaid spokeswoman Holly Miller says thousands are without power, hindering search and rescue efforts.

media_camera Unstable ... Many buildings in Nepal are teetering on the edge after the quake. AFP/ PRAKASH MATHEMA

Shocking aerial photos show villages turned to rubble after the monster earthquake, as rescuers dig through debris in Kathmandu.

Former Nepalese Prime Minister Dr Baburam Bhattarai shared images on Facebook of homes in the Gorkha region demolished after Saturday’s quake.

More than 6200 were injured after the quake tore through large parts of Nepal, levelling homes, toppling office blocks and triggering deadly avalanches at Everest base camp.

media_camera Under rubble ... former Nepalese Prime Minister Dr Baburam Bhattarai shared images of homes in the Gorkha region that had been demolished. Picture: Facebook/Dr Baburam Bhattarai

The death toll in India stands at 61, while Chinese officials say 20 people had been killed in the Tibet region.

The Australian Red Cross confirmed that three local Nepalese working for the Nepal Red Cross Society have died.

With heavy hearts, we report that a staff member and two volunteers with Nepal Red Cross Society were killed during the... Posted by Australian Red Cross on Sunday, 26 April 2015

As rescuers sift through the rubble searching for survivors, grief-stricken Nepalese are holding mass cremations in the devastated capital.

The horrific quake, the Himalayan nation’s worst disaster in more than 80 years, was followed by powerful aftershocks, including a including a 6.7 magnitude monster on Sunday.

The US Geological Survey reports the shock, which occurred in the Kathmandu region, registered at a shallow depth of 10 kilometres.

media_camera Cremation ... people burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/Prakash Mathema

AFP correspondents in Kathmandu reported that tremors were felt throughout the night, including one strong aftershock at dawn.

AFP’s Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment at base camp, reported that six helicopters had managed to reach the mountain on Sunday morning after the weather had improved overnight.

Hospitals were so stretched on Sunday that medics had set up tents outside the buildings to treat patients.

Snowfalls on Saturday had thwarted efforts to airlift survivors from Everest base camp, where hundreds of mountaineers were gathered at the start of the annual climbing season, cancelled last year after the deaths of the 16 sherpa guides.

Abbott: Keep trying

With several hundred Australians still unaccounted for in Nepal, Prime Minister Tony Abbott has urged people to keep trying to contact relatives who have travelled there.

Mr Abbott said a lot of people out trekking will be difficult to contact and people should phone the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade if they can’t get in touch with their loved ones.

Aid groups: hospitals overflowing, rural towns cut off

Aid groups and governments worldwide intensified efforts to help Nepal, but blocked roads, downed power lines and overcrowded hospitals posed formidable challenges in an already poor country.

The US together with European and Asian nations sent emergency crews to reinforce those scrambling to find survivors in the devastated capital Kathmandu and in cut-off rural areas.

“Tragically, more bodies are being pulled from collapsed buildings every hour,” the Australian Red Cross said in a statement.

media_camera Distressed ... Relatives of a victim of the earthquake cry while walking to the cremation site. Picture: Omar Havana/Getty Images

“Communication is down in many areas. Widespread destruction, rubble and landslides are preventing access to provide aid in many villages.” Mike Bruce, regional communications manager for the Plan International aid organisation, said many areas — both rural and in some of the larger towns — had suffered landslides and roads were blocked.

Although mobile networks appeared to be being restored by midafternoon on Sunday, he said, coverage remained sporadic.

“People are sleeping on the streets and cooking outside for the most part. And we are talking about very, very poor areas of Nepal — areas that are already suffering a great deal,” said Bruce.

Other aid organisations relayed fears that stocks of essential supplies were rapidly running out, and described the fearsome effects of the quake.

“We witnessed terrible scenes of destruction — hospitals were evacuated with patients being treated on the ground outside, homes and buildings demolished and some roads cracked wide open,” said Eleanor Trinchera, Caritas Australia program co-ordinator for Nepal, who was an hour outside the capital when the quake struck.

media_camera Sending in help ... Some of the 62 members of the Dutch Urban Search and Rescue team get ready to leave with their tracker dogs for Nepal. Picture: AFP/ EVERT-JAN DANIELS

A lack of electricity would soon be complicated by a scarcity of water, aid groups said, with medical supplies also dwindling, while Oxfam told AFP morgues were reaching capacity.

“Communication systems are congested and hospitals are crowded and are running out of room for storing dead bodies,” Helen Szoke, the charity’s Australia chief executive, told AFP.

The World Health Organization gave emergency health kits with medicines and supplies to hospitals treating the injured.

Survivors also slept in the open in Kathmandu overnight, braving the cold for fear of being crushed by teetering buildings.

Hundreds of structures, including office blocks and a landmark nine-storey tower, crashed to the ground at around midday on Saturday when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck.

media_camera Death toll rising ... A man cries during the funeral of his sister. Picture: AP/Bernat Armangue

Millions pledged in aid

As Nepal began to take stock of the devastation countries around the world pledged support and help including Australia and New Zealand.

Several dozen US aid workers and specially trained rescue dogs headed to Nepal on Sunday aboard a military transport plane to provide urgent assistance.

The C-17 Globemaster aircraft left Dover air force Base in Delaware around 11:18am (1518 GMT) and is expected to land in Nepal on Monday afternoon, the US military said.

“The aircraft is transporting nearly 70 personnel including a USAID Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART), the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue team and several journalists, along with 45 square tons of cargo,” Pentagon spokesman Colonel Steven Warren said.

media_camera Tragic ... A man sits next to the body of a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, before cremation. Picture: AP/Bernat Armangue

A USAID spokeswoman said the cargo was mainly equipment to assist the aid team. Among the personnel travelling aboard the aircraft are nearly 60 people and six specially trained dogs from a Fairfax County search and rescue team, the spokeswoman told AFP.

“We are currently preparing additional shipments,” especially emergency shelter material, she said, adding that should leave the United States in the coming days.

The initial estimated cost of the military’s support mission is $700,000 and there are currently no other requests for intervention, officials said.

A total of 26 US military personnel and a C-130 transport plane are currently in Nepal, where they had been due to take part in a previously scheduled training exercise.

No member of the US military is known to be missing in the quake, according to officials.

Originally published as City moves 3m in 30 seconds
</text>