<url>
http://newsblaze.com/story/20150426180743mina.nb/topstory.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
7.8 Magnitude Quake Rattles Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Powerful quake leaves 2,200 people dead

A devastating earthquake that measured 7.8 magnitude rattled Nepal’s capital Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara, killing at least 2,200 people.

The death toll has risen as the quake also affected neighbouring countries particularly India, China, Bangladesh and Tibet.

According to reports, the powerful quake has killed 18 climbers on Mount Everest.

Reports also say there are 36 people dead India, 12 in China, four in Bangladesh and six in Tibet.

The earthquake destroyed dozens of buildings in Kathmandu and many are believed to be trapped in collapsed buildings. The historic Dharahara Tower which is a UNESCO-recognized historical monument collapsed as well.

The city’s main hospital is filled with wounded victims and people whose houses were destroyed have nowhere to go.

Rescue operations are underway across the city and region. For the meantime, rescue workers are helping those who roam the streets for they have lost their homes and nowhere to go.

World Extends Condolences And Aid

As a world leader, the United States of America said it is ready to extend support and aid.

In a press statement in Washington DC, US Secretary of State

John Kerry expressed US’ deepest condolences to all of those affected by the deadly earthquake in Nepal, including the families of those who died in Nepal, India, and Bangladesh.

“We are working closely with the government of Nepal to provide assistance and support.” – Secretary Kerry

He announced that Ambassador Bodde has issued a disaster declaration in order to immediately release an initial $1 million for humanitarian assistance.

In addition, USAID is preparing to deploy a Disaster Assistance Response Team and is activating an Urban Search and Rescue Team to accompany disaster experts and assist with assessments of the situation.

“To the people in Nepal and the region affected by this tragedy we send our heartfelt sympathies. The United States stands with you during this difficult time.” – Secretary Kerry

More Countries Willing To Help Nepal

Britain responded to the call for help by prompt deployment of a team of humanitarian experts to Nepal to provide urgent humanitarian support for people affected by the earthquake.

The eight-strong team of disaster relief experts will travel to Nepal. The team will assess the scale of the damage and help the Nepal government direct the humanitarian response.

Aid also reached the victims of the quake as Indian air force planes landed with 43 tons of relief material, including tents and food, and nearly 200 rescuers. More aid flights were scheduled for Sunday.

Three Americans were killed on Mount Everest. Four members of another team, one Australian, one Chinese and two Nepalese members of the team were killed. 350 Australians in the region were unaccounted for this morning.

Hit by Avalanche in Everest Basecamp 25.04.2015
</text>