<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11565061/Nepal-earthquake-What-is-being-done-to-help-victims.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: What is being done to help victims and what happens next?
</headline>

<text>
A British flight carrying aid to Nepal is due to touch down in Kathmandu on Monday morning, as rescuers continue to search for survivors of the worst earthquake to hit the country in 80 years.

With the death toll from Saturday's earthquake now at 3,617, the flight which left Stansted on Sunday night was carrying 11 tonnes of essential supplies – including torches, axes, rope, search cameras, stretchers and tents.

A priority for the teams will be reaching the areas which have been so far cut off from the outside world – including the town of Pokhara, and villages in the hills. Some reports suggested that entire villages had been flattened, but until now the area has been inaccessible. The death toll will almost certainly rise once those areas are reached.

Rescue teams have been taking people by helicopter from Mount Everest – where hundreds of climbers were caught up in a series of avalanches, triggered by the 7.8 magnitude quake and aftershocks. At least 17 people were feared to have been killed.

Seven UK search and rescue crews, four search and rescue dogs, a medical support team and a hazardous materials specialist were on board. The UK has also deployed a team of trauma doctors and a five-strong Foreign Office Rapid Deployment Team who will provide further consular assistance for British nationals affected by the disaster.

The UK is also sending experts from leading aid agencies including the British Red Cross, Médecins Sans Frontières and Map Action – an international disaster mapping charity.

On Monday morning the RAF also began flying aid to Nepal, with a C-17 Globemaster III and a C-130 Hercules expected to leave Brize Norton later.

UK search and rescue team plus medics flying tonight to #Nepal to assist following #NepalEarthquake. — David Cameron (@David_Cameron) April 26, 2015

Justine Greening, the International Development Secretary, said the UK was doing "everything it can" to help Nepal recover and provide assistance to British nationals caught up in the disaster.

“We are deploying highly trained experts in search and rescue and trauma medicine to pull people from the rubble and save lives. These are brave men and women who will be doing crucial, life-saving work on behalf of the UK.”

The UK has provided a £5 million package of support, including £3 million released under the Rapid Response Facility (RRF) so partners can address immediate needs on the ground and £2 million for the British Red Cross.

And around the world, countries were offering money and equipment.

John Kerry, the US secretary of state, said they were offering an initial $1 million (£660,000) and that America was preparing to deploy a Disaster Assistance Response Team and Urban Search and Rescue Team.

Julie Bishop, Australia’s foreign affairs minister, has offered aid worth AU$5 million (£2.57 million) to Nepal, while Norway has promised £2.5 million.

"It is now important to get an overview of what the needs are so that relief efforts can be brought in as quickly and efficiently as possible," said Boerge Brende, the country’s foreign minister. "The funds will be channelled through the UN system and NGOs."

Countries such as Belgium, Finland, Germany, Greece, Netherlands, Poland and Sweden have offered their search and rescue teams to Nepal – while the EU is providing €3 million.

The UAE, Singapore, Malaysia and Japan are sending search and rescue teams, and Sri Lanka has sent military personnel to assist.

Israel sent a 260-member team to Nepal on two hired Boeing 747 jumbo jets. The mission comprises a medical staff of 122 doctors, nurses and paramedics, who also carried 95 tons of humanitarian and medical supplies.

Part of the team will immediately engage in search-and-rescue operations, and medics and other support staff are expected to set up a full field hospital in Nepal within 12 hours of landing.



Pakistani soldiers loading relief supplies for Nepal earthquake victims at the Chaklala military airbase in Rawalpindi (Rex)

Pakistan has so far sent four Air Force aircraft for rescue and relief assistance, including a 30-bed mobile hospital.

China has sent 62 people as part of a search and rescue team, and is also providing aid and 20 million yuan (£2.2 million).

“The Chinese side is willing to offer all necessary disaster assistance to the Nepalese side,” said President Xi Jinping said in a statement.

India, which also saw at least 67 of its citizens killed, was one of the first to respond.

India should send @Gen_VKSingh to Nepal to oversee rescue, relief ops. He is a hon Gen of the Nepal Army as well. — Manu Pubby (@manupubby) April 25, 2015

Within four hours of the earthquake, New Delhi dispatched the Indian Air Force’s first C-130J super Hercules aircraft with members of the National Disaster Response Force.

So far, 285 members of the team have been sent to Nepal, along with three army field hospitals and civilian doctors.

Even tiny Bhutan is helping.

A 53-member team from Bhutan is due to land in Kathmandu on Monday.

“Upon the Royal Command of His Majesty The King, Bhutan will be sending a 37-member medical team assisted by 15 Desuups to Kathmandu to offer medical assistance for the earthquake relief operations,” the Bhutanese monarch’s office posted on Facebook.

It said the prime minister of Bhutan had personally travelled to Nepal to give $1 million.

The team will consist of surgeons, medical specialists, nurses and technicians from the Bhutan’s ministry of health and the Royal Bhutan Army.
</text>