<url>
http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/nepal-earthquake-hopes-fade-for-survivors-180-rescued-on-mount-everest-20150427-1mungw.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Hopes fade for survivors; 180 rescued on Mount Everest
</headline>

<text>
A child injured in Saturday's earthquake, is carried by a Nepalese soldier after being evacuated as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: AP

"The priority is to find people who are trapped and to search for survivors," Colonel Naresh Subba, director of disaster management in Nepal's army, said in Kathmandu on Monday.

The army is searching 19 separate areas for survivors, mostly in the Kathmandu valley, Subba said. Aerial surveys showed that some villages accessible only by dirt roads have been "completely flattened," he said.

The cost of the economic damage from the quake may exceed $US1.5 billion ($1.91 billion) in Nepal and $US680 million ($865.30 million) in India, Kinetic Analysis estimates.

Makeshift tents popped up across Kathmandu, where orange and blue tarps hung on hundreds of buildings at risk of collapse. Hundreds of motorists lined up at petrol stations in the city, raising fears of a fuel shortage that could hinder efforts to provide relief in more remote areas.

The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after a huge avalanche, triggered by the earthquake, killed at least 17 people. Photo: 6summitschallenge.com

"Those trapped could be in the thousands, but it's difficult to estimate right now. Millions are homeless," Rameshwor Dangal, joint secretary at Nepal's Home Ministry, said on Monday in Kathmandu.

At least 19 foreigners, including Google executive Dan Fredinburg, died on Everest after the earthquake. Helicopters evacuated almost all of the 180 climbers stuck at Camp 1 and Camp 2 on Everest after the route back to base camp was blocked in an avalanche, Ang Tshering Sherpa, president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, said by phone on Monday.

A man sits with a child on his lap as victims of Saturday's earthquake wait for ambulances after being evacuated to Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: AP

"They are all in good health," Sherpa said, adding that 700 climbers are still at base camp and the route to Camp 1 is being repaired.

According to the Tourism Ministry more than 1000 climbers, including more than 490 foreigners, were present at the Base Camp when the earthquake struck.

Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian Air Force helicopter as they evacuate victims of Saturday's earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal. Photo: AP

Nepalese authorities appealed for tents, food, blankets and medicines to help those without homes throughout the Himalayan nation. Over 1 million people are living in tents, according to some reports. Rains have slowed power restoration and other relief efforts, including the clearing away of corpses. Snow is predicted to fall in the next day at higher altitudes, which could hinder the rescue and recovery efforts.

"Time is of the essence for the search and rescue operations," Valerie Amos, the United Nations under secretary- general for humanitarian affairs, said in a statement. Many people have slept in the open for two nights and require food, water and emergency shelter, while at least 940,000 children live in areas severely affected by the earthquake, the UN said.

Family members stand next to the burning pyre of a family member at a cremation ground in Bhaktapur, Nepal. The death toll is now over 4100. Photo: Reuters

About 3000 patients were spread through hallways, benches and courtyards at the 600-bed Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu, with staff struggling to treat all the wounded. Medical waste spilled out of a trash can next to a women on a stretcher as doctors looked at X-rays outdoors.

The earthquake and powerful aftershocks, which were caused by the India plate pushing under the Eurasian plate, shifted Kathmandu three metres, according to the BBC.

A Hindu Nepalese woman offers prayers at Indrayani temple, which was damaged in the earthquake. Photo: AP

Among the injured were children who suffered from broken bones, with some needing amputations. Many patients had open wounds that doctors are unable to treat due to a lack of manpower and supplies, raising the risk of water-borne diseases.

Suresh Kayastha, a doctor at the hospital, said the situation outside the capital was even worse.

"No rescuers have gone outside the valley," Kayastha said. "There is no government supply of aid in these regions."

The International Monetary Fund, humanitarian groups and governments from China to India to Israel rushed to provide assistance to Nepal. Rebuilding costs could "easily exceed" $US5 billion ($6.36 billion), which would be about 20 per cent of Nepal's gross domestic product, Rajiv Biswas, chief Asia economist at IHS, told Bloomberg Television.

"This is a very catastrophic event in a very poor nation," Biswas said on Monday. "The cost of reconstruction over the next few years will be massive."

Tourism is a key economic driver for Nepal, which has a gross domestic product that is smaller than any of the 50 US states. Its 28 million people have the lowest spending power of any Asian country apart from Afghanistan, IMF statistics show.

Hundreds of people attempt to reach Everest's summit each year, typically paying a minimum of $US30,000 ($38,175) per person and often far more for the privilege, according to an estimate by Outside magazine. The rising numbers of climbers has drawn complaints about overcrowding, littering and heightened danger. April is a peak month for climbing.

Kathmandu's international airport closed temporarily after the initial quake and again after a 6.7 magnitude aftershock on Sunday. Television images showed tourists camped outside the airport awaiting flights to leave.

Widespread rains are forecast to hit Nepal, threatening to further hinder relief efforts, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. It warned citizens to be beware of possible landslides.

"The weather is not helping," Renaud Meyer, country manager for the UN Development Program, told Bloomberg Television. "In normal circumstances it can take several days to reach out to the villages. Now with the rain plus the quake it's a source of major concern to even have an assessment of the situation in those remote villages."

Australian Renu Fotedar was among 19 people killed on Mount Everest, the world's highest peak. The other dead included two US nationals and one Chinese, while the other victims were Nepalese. Sixty people were injured and were receiving treatment at various hospitals, Shrestha said.

Dramatic footage from the disaster on Everest emerged on Monday, with video showing an avalanche rising like a cloud of smoke and then crashing down and engulfing the campsite.

Across the country efforts were under way to fix phone lines and restore power on Monday, the prime minister said.

Another 66 were killed across the border in India and at least another 20 in Tibet, China's state news agency said.

On Monday evening, tremors shook northeast India again, sending residents rushing out of their homes, fearing for their safety.

Foreign relief

India had so far dispatched 400 tons of relief materials and basic supplies, according to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. Pakistan had set up temporary medical camps.

Chinese rescue teams began searching for victims and survivors in the capital.

The Asian Development Bank pledged up to $US200 million ($256 million) in credit for the first phase of rehabilitation and said it was sending $US3 million ($3.82 million) as a grant for tents, medicines, food and drinking water.

Britain has pledged $US7.5 million ($9.54 million) and Canada has promised $US4.1 million ($5.22 million).

Fourteen of the European Union's 28 member states have offered to send first aid teams and equipment, a spokeswoman for the bloc's executive said.

There was also high-tech help from Facebook and Google, which added functions to their online platforms to help people find friends and relatives caught in the quake.

Several countries sent aid and personnel to Nepal.

India sent helicopters, medical supplies and members of its National Disaster Response Force. China sent a 60-strong emergency team. Pakistan's army said it was sending four C-130 aircraft with a 30-bed hospital, search and rescue teams and relief supplies.

A Pentagon spokesman said a US military aircraft with 70 personnel left the United States on Sunday and was due in Kathmandu on Monday. Australia, Britain and New Zealand said they were sending specialist urban search-and-rescue teams to Kathmandu at Nepal's request.

Bloomberg, AFP, Reuters
</text>