<url>
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/International-response-mobilizes-to-help-6225249.php
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
International response mobilizes to help quake-ravaged Nepal
</headline>

<text>
International response mobilizes to help quake-ravaged Nepal









Photo: Prakash Singh, AFP / Getty Images Image 1 of / 3 Caption Close Image 1 of 3 A member of the Nepalese security forces sets up a tent in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu. A member of the Nepalese security forces sets up a tent in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Singh, AFP / Getty Images Image 2 of 3 Chinese search-and-rescue personnel board a flight to earthquake-ravaged Nepal from Beijing. Chinese search-and-rescue personnel board a flight to earthquake-ravaged Nepal from Beijing. Photo: Str, AFP / Getty Images Image 3 of 3 Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images International response mobilizes to help quake-ravaged Nepal 1 / 3 Back to Gallery

International aid agencies and governments mobilized Sunday to respond to the destructive earthquake in Nepal, saying they faced challenges in getting assistance to the country and distributing it amid the widespread devastation.

In the aftermath of the disaster, development workers said continued aftershocks, a crippled transport network and the loss of power in parts of the country had made it tough to search for survivors and distribute much-needed supplies.

And employees of aid organizations have been affected themselves even as they organize responses to the catastrophe. Sanjay Karki, the country director for Mercy Corps, an international aid organization, said some members of his staff had lost their homes.

LATEST NEWS VIDEOS Now Playing: Now Playing Flying Insects Are Disappearing! Buzz60

Is President Trump Jealous of The NFL? Buzz60

North Korea Now Warns U.S. Of 'Unimaginable Strike At An Unimaginable Time' Buzz60

A Huge Cave Discovered On The Moon Could Be a Home Base For Astronauts Buzz60

A 5000-Mile Long 'River in the Sky' is Pummeling The Pacific Northwest Buzz60

Report: Chad Put on Trump's Travel Ban Because it Ran Out of Passport Paper Buzz60

Dem Lawmaker Threatened After Sharing Account of Trump's 'Knew What He Signed Up For' Call Buzz60

Report: Russia is Behind Fake GOP Twitter Account Buzz60

Coping with emotional aftermath of Sonoma County fires KTVU

Silicon Valley software engineer raises money to save Sonoma sanctuary animals KTVU

“Every one or two hours we feel those big jolts,” Karki said. “We really don’t know what to expect, so everyone is in a state of panic.”

'We’re just gearing up’

The United States, India and China initiated their own relief efforts that were expected to see substantial numbers of foreign aid workers, search-and-rescue teams and medical equipment reach the stricken country over the next couple days.

“We’re just gearing up,” said Roger Hodgson, deputy country director in Nepal for Save the Children, an international charity that already has more than 400 people, mostly Nepalese, in the country. “People have been resilient. But it’s been difficult to get people and supplies into the country, especially to rural areas far from Kathmandu.”

The United Nations has said more than 6 million people live in the areas of Nepal that have been affected by the quake. Many individuals have either lost their homes or have been forced to live on the streets because of the threat of further aftershocks.

Rain descended on Kathmandu on Sunday, and officials said the relief efforts faced a race against time because the monsoon season begins in June.

Still, because a severe earthquake had long been predicted by geologists, some agencies had made preparations and disaster plans.

“There was a sense of readiness you always have to have,” said Sarah Crowe, the crisis communications chief of UNICEF, who has also worked in Nepal.

A U.S. disaster relief response team of almost 70 people is expected to arrive Monday, said Susan Parker-Burns, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu. Two teams of U.S. special forces were already in Nepal on a training exercise, and were now providing logistical and medical support to the country’s army, she added.

Seeking loved ones

Several technology companies also offered their support, though their services still depended on Nepal’s patchy Internet and cell phone coverage.

Google said that it had activated its Person Finder online tool that allows individuals to post information about their condition or to try to find missing family members. The service had previously been used during the earthquake in Haiti in 2010 and the tsunami that struck Japan in 2011.

Facebook also said that it had activated a tool on the social network that allows people based in Nepal to let their friends and family know that they are OK.
</text>