<url>
http://www.andhrawishesh.com/378-telugu-headlines-top-stories/49641-helping-hand-of-rss-versus-inhumane-business-of-soul-harvesters.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Inhumane business of soul harvesters
</headline>

<text>
RSS is all set to participate in the relief and rescue operations in the earthquake-hit Nepal with its senior leaders reaching the Himalayan nation to chalk out coordination plans. The RSS today said its workers would join rescue efforts once a proper plan is chalked out in consultation with the Government of Nepal. Senior RSS office bearer, Dattatreya Hosabale, has left for Nepal to co-ordinate relief activities through the Nepalese wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), known as the Hindu Swayamsewak Sangh (HSS).



It is a foreign country and we need to co-ordinate with the government of Nepal for any relief work through the RSS," said Sangh's Prachar Pramukh Manmohan Vaidya. "Dattaji has gone to Nepal and he will co-ordinate what HSS needs to do and whether it is alright with the government of Nepal, for us to send people from here," he added.



Swayamsevaks from India "are ready to join hands with HSS Nepal after a proper plan is chalked out" in coordination with the government of Nepal, RSS said. "RSS shares the grief and shock about the devastating earthquake with the people and expresses deep condolences and prayer for the deceased," said Vaidya.



On the other side the soul harvesters has started their business by exploiting the tragedy and luring, forcing and coercing the people in distress to convert into Christianity. The shameless and heartless evangelist does not have any humanitarian attitude, instead they are trying to harvest souls during this time when the whole nation of Nepal is in pain and the whole world is trying to ease the pain of the people. Below are some of the tweets by the senseless heartless evangelist’s.



For a bigot, idiocy knows no heights; events like these are thus an opportunity to harvest souls. They are rejoicing at the turn of events. The cause for their joy is twofold 1) Lots and lots of dead heathens. 2) The remaining is apt target for conversion. Their hate for the heathens is too blaring to be ignored as an individual's opinion and this, as a side effect, puts all Christians in bad light. It is really sad that these Soul Vultures are becoming active to prey upon weak and helpless victims of disaster. Missionaries are rushing into Nepal with their aid, but help will be given to only those who convert. While those in distress are in need of food, shelter and medicine they're out there preaching the Gospel.



Contrast to this is the amazingly selfless work of India's secular government machinery or that with what's labelled by Indian media as the India's alleged 'right wing Hindutva organisation', RSS. They reached there, silently, with men and material, provided aid and all possible help without any discrimination or expectations. The largest 'Hindu right wing' organization, RSS is nothing but a human welfare organization, on the other hand the Christian evangelical 'welfare organisations' are nothing but soul harvesting scavenger groups.



By Premji
</text>