<url>
http://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/here-is-how-you-can-help-the-nepal-earthquake-victims-via-the-web/article1-1341618.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Here is how you can help the Nepal earthquake victims via the web
</headline>

<text>
Aid groups are rushing to get crucial supplies to survivors of Nepal's devastating earthquake, which has killed more than 4,000 people so far. Despite their best efforts, they are in urgent need of money and supplies considering the scale of the destruction in the Himalayan country. They have appealed to the citizens of the world to donate generously to the cause.

Here's a look at humanitarian efforts under way in Nepal and how to donate online:

PM's Relief Fund

The earthquake has affected people in India too by killing 72 people and causing major damage. The resources of the PMNRF are utilized primarily to render immediate relief to people affected in natural disasters in India. PM Modi has already donated one month of his salary to the Relief fund and you can contribute to the cause by clicking here.

UNICEF

The UN children's agency, UNICEF, says nearly 1 million children in Nepal need help. The agency says it is preparing two cargo flights with a combined 120 tons of humanitarian supplies including medical and hospital supplies, tents and blankets, for urgent airlift to Kathmandu.

Click here to go to UNICEF's website.

World Food Program (WFP)

The UN World Food Program says its logistics and emergency response teams have arrived in Kathmandu. It is helping to restore communication lines and power at the Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport. Click here to donate to WFP's cause.

Red Cross

Many families have been separated in the chaos that followed the earthquake. The International Committee for the Red Cross (ICRC) says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society and has a team working on emergency response. If you have a missing family member or wish to convey to family and friends that you are well, click here to register at ICRC.

Mercy Corps

Mercy Corps warns that prices for essential supplies in Nepal are rising quickly. The group says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society to help distribute essential household supplies, shelter kits and tarpaulins. Mercy Corps has 90 staffers on the ground in Nepal, some of whom have lost their homes in the quake. Click here to donate to their cause.

Save the Children

Save the Children says it has staff in 63 districts and emergency kits, hygiene materials and tarpaulins already in Nepal and ready for distribution. Additional supplies and emergency recovery teams are being flown in.

The organisation works in the area of rehabilitating children especially in the critical hours and days of the earthquake. You can donate to Save the Children here.

Oxfam

Oxfam says its team in Nepal is assessing needs and it is sending emergency food, water and sanitation supplies. "Communication is currently very difficult. Telephone lines are down and the electricity has been cut off making charging mobile phones difficult. The water is also cut off," country director Cecilia Keizer says in a statement. Oxfam's website allows one to donate by card, mail and even by phone.

Doctors Without Borders

Doctors Without Borders, also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, is an international medical aid agency. It has already sent eight teams of medical staff and supplies to Nepal, including emergency surgical teams. Donate to the organisation here.
</text>