<url>
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/news/2015/4/27/china/india-and-china-send-rescue-teams-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
India and China send rescue teams to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
India and China send rescue teams to Nepal

India and China rushed rescue teams and other assistance to earthquake-hit Nepal, a strategically important neighbour for the two Asian giants, which are jostling for influence in the Himalayan nation.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has sought to rebuild India’s position as a regional power, responded quickly after the massive quake, assuring his counterpart in Nepal of “support and assistance during this tough time,” according to a tweet from his personal account.

By the end of the day Saturday, four Indian aircraft carrying nearly 300 disaster-response personnel and a mobile hospital had landed in the Nepalese capital Katmandu. More aircraft landed Sunday carrying food, medical supplies and rescue equipment, India’s Foreign Ministry said.

China responded by sending a 62-member search-and-rescue team to Nepal on Sunday, along with six sniffer dogs and medical equipment, the Chinese government’s news agency Xinhua said.

China’s Ministry of Commerce said it was coordinating with other agencies and providing about $3.2 million in tents, blankets, generators and other materials to be sent by charter flights to Nepal.

The U.S. also ramped up disaster assistance for Nepal, with several aid groups dispatching humanitarian specialists, search-and-rescue workers and badly needed supplies. The government set aside an initial $1 million for relief organizations to address urgent humanitarian needs.

Chinese leaders sent messages expressing shock at the disaster and condolences to victims’ families.

“The Chinese side is willing to offer all necessary disaster assistance to the Nepalese side,” Chinese President Xi Jinping said.

India has long seen Nepal as part of its sphere of influence. China has been making inroads for decades, and the rivalry with India has gathered momentum with the increasing pace of Chinese investment in recent years.

This pattern has emerged across South Asia, from the island-nations of Sri Lanka, Maldives and Mauritius to Bangladesh and Pakistan, where an expanding Chinese footprint has spurred Indian officials to reinvigorate India’s often fraught relationships with its neighbours.

“Nepal is located between these two super powers and there is a competition within Nepal for influence,” said Michael Hutt, professor of Nepali and Himalayan studies at the University of London.

In Nepal, China is committing billions of dollars for highway projects, power plants and factories, and the Chinese government pledged last year to increase its annual aid fivefold to $125 million, as it seeks to discourage the Himalayan nation from offering refuge to Tibetans fleeing China.

Since coming to power in May last year, Mr. Modi has tried to play catch-up, offering $1 billion in loans to help build infrastructure in Nepal and moving forward on power-trading deals to help India harness Nepal’s abundant hydroelectric-power potential.

But with fewer resources to commit overseas, Mr. Modi is also trying another tack: highlighting the historical closeness and cultural ties between the two Hindu-majority countries.

In a monthly radio address on Sunday, Mr. Modi said the priority of India’s rescue teams would be to find survivors trapped in debris and save lives. In the coming days, he said, India would also assist with relief and reconstruction work. “My beloved brothers and sisters of Nepal, India is with you in your sadness,” Mr. Modi said. “India will wipe their tears. We’ll hold their hands. We’ll support them in this hour of pain.”
</text>