<url>
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-australian-reported-among-dead-on-everest/story-e6frg6so-1227322502813?nk=8817ea686add64e315ccf8158bc816f7
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australian reported among dead on Everest
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Australian reported among dead on Everest

Climber captures incredible avalanche footage from base camp in Nepal 0:30 German climber Jost Kobusch captures incredible vision as an avalanche descends on the Mount Everest Base Camp in Nepal. Courtesy: Jost Kobusch

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has said diplomats in Kathmandu were “urgently seeking to confirm these reports” of an Australian national killed at Mount Everest in an avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake.

“To date, we have been able to confirm the welfare of more than 830 Australians in the country,” she told ABC Radio.

The 7.8 magnitude quake struck on Saturday near Kathmandu, the Nepalese capital, killing over 3,000 people in the region and setting off the avalanche that slammed into Everest’s Base Camp, engulfing scores of climbers.

Expedition leaders reportedly said an Australian, an American and a Chinese citizen were among the dead.

Temba Tsheri Sherpa of the Dreamers’ Destination Treks and Expeditions has said the Australian was part of his group on the mountain.

“I have lost four team members in the avalanche — two Nepalis, one Chinese and Australian,” he told media on Sunday.

“We’ve activated the 24/7 emergency call unit and to date we’ve taken more than 1250 calls from family and friends of missing Australians,” said Ms Bishop.

“We are trying to confirm the number of Australians in the country and we will try to make contact with all of them.

“We have deployed a crisis response team to Nepal; that team will assist in establishing the welfare of Australians unaccounted for after the earthquake and of course will also assist with humanitarian assessments to support the Nepalese government.”

Parliamentary secretary to the Foreign Minister Steve Ciobo told ABC Radio he was aware of the report about the Australian’s death but the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade had not confirmed the death.

Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP

GALLERY: Devastation in Nepal

A DFAT crisis response team has been deployed to Nepal to help establish the welfare of Australians unaccounted for and assist the Nepalese government.

The Australian government has contributed $5 million to Nepal and Northern India in the wake of the earthquake. Prime Minister Tony Abbott cautioned that families of missing Australians should remain hopeful because communications are so disrupted in such a remote part of the world.

“Australians go trekking in that part of the world and because they go trekking we shouldn’t assume the worst,’’ he said.

Mr Abbott said in addition to the money, the government was assessing the type of on the ground support that could be provided in the coming days.

“We have made available $5 million as the first response and we are considering a further on the ground response we might be able to make in the next day or so,’’ Mr Abbott said.

Helicopters began airlifting injured climbers off Everest on Sunday after weather conditions improved overnight.

Six helicopters landed at base camp to remove some of the 61 injured people.

“People being stretchered out as choppers land — half a dozen this morning,” Agence France-Presse journalist Ammu Kannampilly said in a text message. “Weather clear, some snowfall.”

Hours later a 6.7-magnitude aftershock triggered more avalanches. “Just had our biggest aftershock yet here at C1 on Everest. Smaller than original quake but glacier shook & avalanches,” climber Jim Davidson tweeted from Camp One.

An enormous cloud of snow and debris cascaded down the mountain when the disaster struck on Saturday. “I ran and it just flattened me. I tried to get up and it flattened me again,” Singapore-based marine biologist George Foulsham said.

“I couldn’t breathe, I thought I was dead. When I finally stood up, I couldn’t believe it passed me over and I was almost untouched.”

The official death toll has risen to 3,218, a disaster management chief said.

“The death toll has reached 3,218 and over 6,500 are injured,” said Rameshwor Dangal, who heads the home ministry’s national disaster management division.

The toll for Nepal had previously stood at 2,430. Around 90 people are also known to have died in neighbouring countries, including India and China.

Hundreds of Australians remain unaccounted for as a lack of communications and electricity hinder rescue efforts in Nepal.

Actionaid spokeswoman Holly Miller said thousands are without power, hindering search and rescue efforts.

Additional reporting: Jacquqelin Magnay.
</text>