<url>
http://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/2015/04/26/cincinnati-couple-among-those-stranded-in-nepal/26432515/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Local couple headed home after harrowing trip in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Keith and Nan Jensen were scheduled to return to Cincinnati on Saturday after their two-week excursion in India. (Photo: Provided/Camie Christensen)

Nan and Keith Jensen are making a long journey home after being stranded in Nepal after Saturday's massive earthquake.

Their daughter, Camie Christensen, told The Enquirer Monday that with the help of the U.S. Embassy, her parents' entire tour group has made their way to Delhi, India.

After 36 hours with no contact, she expects her parents home Tuesday afternoon.

She heard the good news through a makeshift network of families who have loved ones in the same tour group. This network has managed to keep everyone updated with information

A text message from Nan Jensen read, "We love thinking of our children all united in prayer on our behalf."

Just days before the earthquake hit, the married couple was riding on the backs of elephants and touring sacred architecture.

They planned to be home Saturday, but found themselves without a hotel or a flight home. They were thankful to have their lives.

Saturday, when a 7.8 earthquake struck Kathmandu, killing more than 3,200, the Jensens found themselves huddling under a blanket in their hotel room, waiting for the tremors to pass.

"We got on the floor next to the bed and covered ourselves with our bed comforter," Nan Jensen wrote in an email to her children. "Then we crawled to the bathroom and waited it to be over. It was so long."

Christensen heard from her parents before she had even seen news of the earthquake.

"I truly cannot even tell you how it made me feel," Christensen told The Enquirer. "My mother is a very classy woman. It's especially hard when I pictured them huddled on the floor like that."

Buy Photo (Photo: Enquirer file)

Keith Jensen, former chief financial officer and senior vice president of American Financial Group, and his wife Nan have lived in Cincinnati for 25 years. All five of their children graduated from Sycamore High School.

Now, the children live in Washington, D.C., Portland and Minneapolis, but have been reconnected following the tragedy.

"We are really thankful," Christensen told The Enquirer Sunday. "My mother was upbeat, but at this point we really don't see a path for them to get home."

Keith and Nan Jensen were at the airport to return to Cincinnati Saturday night when a second earthquake of a 6.5 magnitude struck India. Their flights were diverted and hotels near the airport were booked full.

They had no choice but to return to the lawn of their evacuated hotel in Nepal.

(Photo: Provided/Camie Christensen)

Their touring group of 23 was forced to sleep in a bus outside of their hotel, the children heard. They had one working toilet. A nearby restaurant was able to provide them with food.

When the email came through, the Jensens had spent 10 hours waiting on the lawn of the hotel. The managers constructed makeshift beds for the tourists outside.

However, the Jensens' tour group witnessed areas beyond the hotel grounds where things were far worse.

Nan Jensen told her children how their tour group watched a guide save the life of a 9-year-old. She said he yanked the child out of the way of a falling building right in front of them.

(Photo: Provided/Sue Oldroyd)

Ancient temples that the group had seen minutes before the earthquake hit were destroyed.

"We are so sad about the devastation in this beautiful country where we have met some wonderful people," Nan Jensen wrote to her children.

Sunday night, the group visited nine hotels looking for a place to stay before returning to their original hotel and convincing the staff to let them sleep on the floor of the restaurant inside.

"They were specifically told to not go to public places," Christensen told The Enquirer. "They were supposed to avoid being in crowds. It's really bad there."

Even though the Jensens may not return for another week, Christensen is thankful for her parents' safety.

"It's chilling," Christensen said. "It could have been such a nightmare."

Read or Share this story: http://cin.ci/1zc0nfX
</text>