<url>
http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/panicstricken-people-leave-kathmandu-as-death-toll-climbs/article7147061.ece
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Panic-stricken people leave Kathmandu as death toll climbs to 3, 723
</headline>

<text>
What remains of hotel Budget near Ascal campus, Ktm. Some tourists, incl Indians, say police, might still be inside.

more-in

With rumours swirling around about another strong quake hitting Kathmandu, people on Monday are set out to leave the capital in vehicles and on foot, reports said. The death toll in Saturday’s earthquake that hit Nepal climbed to 3, 723 and the number of injured was over 6, 500, Home Ministry said.

Local media said that thousands of people who had gathered at Kalanki through which most outbound vehicles usually pass, tried to take public transport, small cargo vehicles, and were willing to pay hefty fare. Those who could not board the buses, trucks and micro buses, left on foot.

The government appealed to people not to believe rumours of another quake of over 9 on the Richter scale.

Meanwhile, tourists, including, Indians, are believed to be trapped inside the rubble of inside Hotel Budget off Thamel, the tourist hub in the capital. The hotel, which is very close to Indian Embassy in Kathmandu, had about 20 guests, Inspector S. D. Kharka of Armed Police Force told The Hindu. “Some guests who were having lunch managed to escape when the quake hit on Saturday, but those in their rooms could not.”

A call to the mobile number of Indian Embassy spokesperson remained unanswered and the some of the phone numbers listed by the embassy were switched off “or were not registered” as an automated voice said. With phone connections erratic, this kind of response is given for genuine numbers as well.

People are also feared to be trapped in the debris of a community stone inside the same complex as Hotel Budget.

Inspector Kharka said a crane had come to clear the debris but could not do it. “We are now waiting for a team of evacuation experts,” he said even as he and his men tried to prevent people from going close to the destruction site. “The government is doing its best but we need more supplies,” said Chief Secretary Lila Mani Paudyal. Mr. Paudyal said the government was doing it’s best to rescue trapped people and provide relief, but admitted that the efforts were slow. Addressing a press conference in Kathmandu, the topmost bureaucrat said that although 11 countries, including, India, sent relief supplies, it was well short of what was needed. “We have been overwhelmed,” Mr. Paudyal said. Among the short supply are drinking water, tents, medicines and blankets.

This is arguably the worst natural disasters in decades that Nepal is coping with. The last massive earthquake was in 1934 which claimed about 10,000 lives. There is also fear of outbreak of diseases like dysentery and cholera as sanitation facilities were poor in areas where large number of people have been taking shelter since Saturday.

Life limping to normalcy

More shops, including small groceries opened on Monday, though big supermarkets remained shut. But phone connections remained erratic. More private cars and taxis were seen in the capital, though bigger buses stayed off the road. Banks, which had remained shut on Sunday, a working day, opened for a few hours in the afternoon.
</text>