<url>
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Quake-stricken-Nepal-digs-for-survivors-amid-6225243.php
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake toll rises; rescuers struggle to reach remote sites
</headline>

<text>
Nepal quake toll rises; rescuers struggle to reach remote sites































Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 1 of / 9 Caption Close Image 1 of 9 Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 2 of 9 Rescuers search a shattered building in Kathmandu for survivors as aftershocks roll through Nepal. Rescuers search a shattered building in Kathmandu for survivors as aftershocks roll through Nepal. Photo: Manish Swarup, Associated Press Image 3 of 9 A Nepalese mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. A Nepalese mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 4 of 9 Nepalese rescue personnel help a trapped earthquake survivor with a corpse lying next to him in the aftermath of the Nepal quake. Nepalese rescue personnel help a trapped earthquake survivor with a corpse lying next to him in the aftermath of the Nepal quake. Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP / Getty Images Image 5 of 9 Nepalese policemen stand on a structure almost reduced to rubble in Saturday’s earthquake at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Nepalese policemen stand on a structure almost reduced to rubble in Saturday’s earthquake at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Photo: Bernat Armangue, Associated Press Image 6 of 9 Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Tents are seen from an airplane window in an open field next to Tribhuwan International Airport Sunday, a day after a massive earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Photo: Wally Santana, Associated Press Image 7 of 9 Indian residents rest and sleep in a football field in Siliguri after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the region. Indian residents rest and sleep in a football field in Siliguri after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the region. Photo: Diptendu Dutta, AFP / Getty Images Image 8 of 9 Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Photo: Prakash Singh, AFP / Getty Images Image 9 of 9 Nepal quake toll rises; rescuers struggle to reach remote sites 1 / 9 Back to Gallery

KATHMANDU, Nepal — The death toll from Nepal’s earthquake soared past 3,300 Monday, and how much higher it would rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster.

Reports received so far by aid groups suggest that many communities perched on mountainsides are devastated or struggling to cope.

Landslides hindered rescue teams that tried to use mountain trails to reach those in need, said Prakash Subedi, chief district official in the Gorkha region, where the quake was centered. Matt Darvas, a member of the aid group World Vision, said it is likely that many communities can be reached only by helicopter.

LATEST NEWS VIDEOS Now Playing: Now Playing Flying Insects Are Disappearing! Buzz60

Is President Trump Jealous of The NFL? Buzz60

North Korea Now Warns U.S. Of 'Unimaginable Strike At An Unimaginable Time' Buzz60

A Huge Cave Discovered On The Moon Could Be a Home Base For Astronauts Buzz60

A 5000-Mile Long 'River in the Sky' is Pummeling The Pacific Northwest Buzz60

Report: Chad Put on Trump's Travel Ban Because it Ran Out of Passport Paper Buzz60

Dem Lawmaker Threatened After Sharing Account of Trump's 'Knew What He Signed Up For' Call Buzz60

Report: Russia is Behind Fake GOP Twitter Account Buzz60

Coping with emotional aftermath of Sonoma County fires KTVU

Silicon Valley software engineer raises money to save Sonoma sanctuary animals KTVU

“Villages like this are routinely affected by landslides, and it’s not uncommon for entire villages of 200, 300, up to 1,000 people to be completely buried by rock falls,” Darvas said.

Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 earthquake spread horror from Kathmandu to small villages and to the slopes of Mount Everest, triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts. At least 18 people died there and 61 were injured.

Deputy Inspector General of Police Komal Singh Bam said Monday that Nepal’s death toll had risen to 3,218 people. That does not include the avalanche toll, which is counted by the mountaineering association. An additional 61 people were killed in neighboring India, and China reported 20 people dead in Tibet.

Kathmandu district chief administrator Ek Narayan Aryal said tents and water were being handed out Monday at 10 locations in Kathmandu, but that aftershocks were leaving everyone jittery. The largest, on Sunday, was magnitude 6.7.

“There have been nearly 100 earthquakes and aftershocks, which is making rescue work difficult. Even the rescuers are scared and running because of them,” he said.

In Kathmandu, tens of thousands of people spent the night sleeping in parks or on a golf course. Others camped in open squares lined by cracked buildings and piles of rubble.

“We don’t feel safe at all. There have been so many aftershocks. It doesn’t stop,” said Rajendra Dhungana, 34, who spent Sunday with his niece’s family for her cremation at the Pashuputi Nath Temple.

Acrid white smoke rose above the Hindu temple, Nepal’s most revered. “I’ve watched hundreds of bodies burn,” Dhungana said.

Aid workers also warned that the situation could be far worse near the epicenter. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was centered near Lamjung, a district about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu. Poor roads and steep mountains make Lamjung difficult to reach. Even before the quake, it could take six hours to drive from Kathmandu to parts of the area. Now many of the roads are believed to be cut off by small landslides.

Nepal’s neighbors were first to respond with aid — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation.

Other countries sending support Sunday included the United States, Canada, the United Arab Emirates, Britain, Germany, France, Poland, Italy, Israel and Singapore.

An American military plane left Delaware’s Dover Air Force Base for Nepal, carrying 70 people, including a disaster-assistance response team and an urban search-and-rescue team, and 45 tons of cargo, the Pentagon said.

State Department contacts

The U.S. State Department has set up the e-mail address nepalemergencyusc@state.gov and a phone number, (888) 407-4747, for anyone who knows of U.S. citizens needing assistance in Nepal.
</text>