<url>
http://www.indiatimes.com/news/india/nepalquake-heres-how-you-can-contribute-to-nepal-rescue-and-relief-funds-if-you-are-in-india-232187.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
#NepalQuake: If You Are In India, Here's How You Can Help!
</headline>

<text>
Our beautiful neighbour Nepal is facing its worst disaster in last eight decades.

The landlocked Himalayan country faced two massive earthquakes of the huge maginitudes (Richter scale 7.8 & 6.7) on consecutive days over the weekend. While the first one almost completely ravished the country's capital, Kathmandu, and surrounding regions, the second one on Sunday furthered the destruction. The latest reports from the country suggest that more than 3000 people have perished in the catastrophe with close to 7000 being injured.

Indian government swiftly sprung into action with relief efforts and within the first four hours of the disaster Indian Air Force had already airlifted the first batch of relief supplies.

But as lesser mortals what can we do? We can all contribute in our own ways. Many Indians are already volunteering for rescue efforts while others are donating food, clothes (not old ones please!) and other objects of urgent need through local channels. The largest requirement is for material to create tents and other shelters followed by food and medicine.

Here is a list which will help you locate and donate to your favourite charity which will further your vision for help in Nepal:

Red Cross

Reuters

Internationally Red Cross has led by example in terms of rescue and relief operation. Also among the chief requirements right now for Nepal, blood ranks highest and Red Cross has the best facilities to get that across to the people in need including a solar powered blood bank in Kathmandu. You can join their ongoing efforts in Nepal right here.

Prime Ministers Relief Fund

Indian Air Force personnel with rescue material in Nepal. Image: Reuters

As Indians we are Nepal's closest allies both topographically and culturally. We have forever been the most cordial nature and many Indians have taken up home in the Himalayan country and vice-versa. You can join Indian government's efforts in the country right here.

Save The Children

Reuters

This international body works for the benefit of children and right now they seem to be the worst affected in the catastrophe. Enlist your contribution to their cause right here.

Unicef

A child survivor of earthquake in Nepal. Image: Reuters

Don't Miss 12 K SHARES 16.7 K SHARES 10.7 K SHARES 13.1 K SHARES 16.3 K SHARES 8.5 K SHARES 7.5 K SHARES 4.7 K SHARES 8.7 K SHARES 9.4 K SHARES

United Nation's arm has revealed that over a million children in Nepal need immediate help. You can support Unicef India's Nepal rescue efforts here.

UN World Food Programme

Relief workers giving food to tourists stuck in Nepal after the quakes. Image: Reuters

UNWFP is already working towards providing clean water and food to the survivors, which if you have noticed even Nepal government has failed to do successfully. You can support their efforts here.

Handicap International

A family at a relief tent in Nepal. Image: Reuters

The international NGO has begun it's rescue and relief operations in the Himalayan country and you can support them here.

International Medical Corps

Doctors attend to a young boy in a trauma center in Kathmandu. Image: Reuters

The only thing nearly as important as food and water is medicines and healthcare. IMC has begun its efforts to get medicines and support to Nepal's survivors and you can support their cause here.

Other groups like the Indian chapter of Medicines Sans Frontiers (Medicine Without Borders) has already reached Nepal with supplies and personnel.

Our emergency teams & supplies are on the way to help ppl caught in #NepalEarthquake. https://t.co/Vq5Ccf7NeZ — Arjan Hehenkamp (@Arjan_Hehenkamp) April 27, 2015



Crowd fund Raising platforms

Many people are coming up on social fund raising platforms to raise funds for relief. Among those is Singapore based fashion designer Prabal Gurung who has joined hands with Nepalese NGO Shikshya Foundation in starting this initiative on Crowdsource.

Meanwhile, people at Goonj have sent out a list of things which can be donated to be used in relief operations in Nepal through their channels and it is almost the best list on what to and what not to store for donations.

Small note and list of material-Thanks for all the calls and mails around the Nepal relief work.. we are on the job. A... Posted by Anshu Gupta on Sunday, April 26, 2015

Here is another Facebook post which gives a better idea of the same along with more details:

We at incrisisrelief.org are coordinating a citizen led emergency response to the Nepal Earthquake. Here's what we need and where you can donate it. Donate. Volunteer. Thanks. Posted by Raheel Khursheed on Sunday, April 26, 2015

We have listed out only a few of the many options available to you. There many more religious and cultural groups who have begun their own support initiatives and you can contribute through them too.

Langar at a Gurudwara

In fact, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) had started sending food packets for the earthquake victims in Nepal from April 26.





In case you want us to involve any particular charity in the list, mail us or tweet to us @indiatimes with your idea.
</text>