<url>
http://thechronicleherald.ca/novascotia/1283040-jesuits-probe-fen-macintosh%E2%80%99s-activities-after-nepal-case
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Jesuits probe Fen MacIntosh’s activities after Nepal case
</headline>

<text>
Canadian Jesuits International has hired a private investigator to learn where convicted sex offender Ernest Fenwick MacIntosh may have visited.

The organization funds schools and orphanages around the world, including ones in Nepal and India that MacIntosh may have visited.

The 71-year-old former Port Hawkesbury businessman was recently sentenced to seven years in jail in Nepal for molesting a boy.

MacIntosh was reportedly at Nakhu Jail in the Lalitpur district, an area near the capital of Kathmandu, where many buildings were destroyed in an earthquake on the weekend.

“I’ve emailed lots of people on the ground there but I haven’t heard a word,” Bob Martin said Monday.

Martin was one of the complainants in the sexual abuse trial of MacIntosh stemming from allegations in the Port Hawkesbury area during the 1970s. He has spent recent years tracking MacIntosh, who was convicted of 17 charges of indecent assault and gross indecency against Martin and others during the 1970s.

Those convictions were thrown out in 2010 by the Nova Scotia Court of Appeal, which ruled it had taken too long for MacIntosh to be brought to trial.

MacIntosh returned to India and was working in Nepal when he was charged with molesting a teenage boy a few months ago. According to CTV News, one of the places visited repeatedly by MacIntosh in Nepal was St. Xavier’s Social Service Centre, a Jesuit-run facility for homeless and impoverished children.

The centre receives donations from Canadian Jesuits International.

“There were allegations against MacIntosh involving a number of schools in India and Nepal,” William Blakeney, a Toronto lawyer for Canadian Jesuits International, told The Chronicle Herald on Monday.

“One of the things we are trying to find out is where he was and when.”

Canadian Jesuits International has hired private investigator Brian King to learn more about MacIntosh’s activities in Canada and abroad. King recently spoke with Martin and is expected to visit Nepal.

The destruction caused by the earthquake has complicated that investigation, but Blakeney said it will continue.

Another institution to which the Jesuits provide funding and from which MacIntosh has been accused of luring and sexually abusing boys is the Gandhi Ashram in India.

“We are just an organization that raises funds for schools in disadvantaged parts of the world, but we have no control over those schools,” said Blakeney.

In Nepal, MacIntosh’s case has caused a broader discussion around accepting international volunteers.

“There needs to be a way to screen volunteers in Nepal in order to protect our children,” wrote Kul Gurung, managing director of the Be-Kul language training centre in Kathmandu, in a March 15 opinion piece on MyRepublica.com.

“There needs to be a way to screen volunteers in Nepal in order to protect our children. The current government needs to do two things. One is to create a volunteer visa. The other is to require the people volunteering to submit a police report through their home country’s embassies stating that they are not on any sexual predator list.”
</text>