<url>
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/nepal-races-rescue-quake-victims-disease-risk-rising
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal races to rescue quake victims with disease risk rising
</headline>

<text>
MUMBAI — The search for survivors of Nepal’s deadly earthquake entered its third day as countries rushed aid to one of Asia’s poorest economies and international relief agencies warned of the rising risk of water-borne disease.

Dozens of aftershocks — including one that reached a magnitude of 6.7 — have hindered rescue efforts since Saturday’s (April 25) magnitude 7.8 earthquake, adding to the chaos as panicked residents avoid returning to damaged homes. Nepal police said the quake killed more than 3,617 people and injured more than 6,000, with the toll still rising.

“It seems very difficult to find survivors now,” Mr Rameshwor Dangal, joint secretary at Nepal’s Home Ministry, said in Kathmandu. “Those trapped could be in the thousands, but it’s difficult to estimate right now. Millions are homeless.”

Nepalese authorities are appealing for tents, food, blankets and medicines as rain slows power restoration and other relief efforts, including the clearing away of corpses. The main quake that struck shortly before noon on Saturday triggered avalanches on Mount Everest, killing at least 19 climbers including a Google product manager.

The International Monetary Fund, humanitarian groups and governments from China to India to Israel rushed to provide assistance to Nepal, one of Asia’s poorest countries. While the temblor also downed buildings and took lives in neighbouring India, Tibet and China, it was Nepal that suffered the brunt.

TIME RUNNING OUT

“Time is of the essence for the search and rescue operations,” United Nations (UN) under secretary-general for humanitarian affairs Ms Valerie Amos said in a statement. Many people have slept in the open for two nights and require food, water and emergency shelter, while at least 940,000 children live in areas severely affected by the earthquake, the UN said.

About 3,000 patients were strewn in hallways, benches and courtyards at the 600-bed Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu, with staff struggling to treat all the wounded. Medical waste spilled out of a trash can next to a women laying on a stretcher as doctors looked at X-rays outdoors. Many of the injured including children suffered from broken bones and needed amputations.

“With rain it increases the chance of epidemic, seasonal flu or bacteria,” said Dr Suresh Kayastha, 28. Many patients have open wounds that doctors are unable to treat due to a lack of manpower and supplies, he said.

Widespread rains are forecast to hit Nepal over the next 24 hours, threatening to further hinder relief efforts, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. It warned citizens to beware of possible landslides.

Pages
</text>