<url>
http://www.timesofisrael.com/teary-eyed-and-thankful-parents-newborns-return-from-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Teary-eyed Israeli parents return from quake-struck Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Israel began repatriating its nationals from quake-hit Nepal Monday, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis.

Three of the newborns arrived on a military plane in the morning, and five others landed at noon on an aircraft commissioned by Magen David Adom, Israel’s emergency medical service, which had taken medics to Nepal on Sunday.

Get The Times of Israel's Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories Free Sign Up

And at an emotional reunion on the runway at Sde Dov Airport, it seemed the only ones not sobbing were the newborns themselves. The earthquake survivors were met with wild cheering from relatives and friends, and excited shrieks from the new grandparents as they walked off the plane. Tearful, several of the couples thanked Israel effusively for the rescue efforts, and for “discovering its greatness.”

Chana Michaeli, one new grandmother interviewed by Channel 2, described the anxiety of the past few days, and said, “Now I’m getting the biggest present in the world.”

“It’s so good to have you back home, I’m proud to be a citizen of Israel,” Interior Minister Gilad Erdan told the group of fathers holding babies and toddlers upon their arrival.

The babies were to undergo DNA testing to confirm their parentage before receiving Israeli citizenship.

Amir Michaeli Molian, who brought home newborn Maya, told Channel 2 that the earthquakes had filled him with “insane fear.”

Under Israeli law, only heterosexual couples can legally have children through surrogate mothers; this leads homosexual couples and single people to often seek help overseas.

Nepal has become a destination for people seeking to have children through surrogate mothers, though the practice is controversial, with critics saying it exploits the poverty of women.

The Foreign Ministry says 25 babies were recently born in Kathmandu — four of them prematurely — to surrogate mothers from India, and it would be doing everything possible to bring the remaining 17 babies and their Israeli parents to Israel.

Officials said the rest of the babies are hopefully to be brought on an Israeli plane, which was expected to leave Nepal on Tuesday, along with others of the 600-700 Israelis in Nepal.

The ministry said it has yet to succeed in contacting 50 Israelis in Nepal following the Saturday quake that has claimed more than 4,000 lives.

Tammuz, an Israeli firm offering surrogacy services, said meanwhile that it had sent a delegation from India to ensure the well-being of the approximately 80 pregnant Indian women in Nepal who are serving as surrogate mothers to the company’s primarily Israeli clients.

Nepal allows surrogacy practices within its borders for foreigners, but prohibits Nepalese women from being surrogate mothers.

Israel’s Justice Ministry said on Monday it would allow the surrogate mothers in advanced states of pregnancy to fly to Israel, but only on the condition they were doing so of their own volition and after the danger of flying in their condition was explained to them.
</text>