<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-28/tanya-plibersek-says-australia-could-do-more-to-help-nepal/6426234
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australia's aid contribution "pretty modest", Tanya Plibersek says
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Australia's aid contribution "pretty modest", Tanya Plibersek says

Updated

Labor's foreign affairs spokeswoman Tanya Plibersek says the Federal Government's response to the Nepal earthquake disaster has been "pretty modest" and has called on the Government to ramp up its response.

A magnitude-7.9 earthquake struck Nepal and north India on Saturday, killing more than 4,000 people and triggering an avalanche on Mount Everest, which killed Australian woman Renu Fotedar.

In response, Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced that Australia would offer $5 million in aid as a first response.

In addition to that, Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop said Australia would also send a crisis response team to Nepal to help establish the number of Australians in the country while also providing humanitarian assistance.

But Ms Plibersek told the ABC's Q&A program that she believes Australia could do much more, considering the scale of the disaster.

"The earthquake in Nepal has caused devastation with casualties in the thousands and many parts of the country destroyed," she said.

"Our support is pretty modest at $5 million. I know a lot of Australians will want to, in addition, make individual donations, but I certainly think we could do more.

"I think it is quite right the Government has said that is part of their planning but, so far, our help is quite modest for the scale of the disaster."

She said Australia could help by providing Nepal with skilled doctors and medical staff, as the country's hospitals are overflowing with thousands of injured survivors in need of treatment.

"We have some very highly-skilled professionals and I know they would be very eager to go and to offer support," she said.

"There are reports of shortages of medicines and medical supplies, that's another area where we might be able to help."

But Liberal senator Arthur Sinodinos said the Australian Government would do what was required.

"Tanya is right to say Australians can be generous but the Australian Government will put in what is required and there will be moves within the Australian Government to make sure that is the case," he said.

He said Australia would look to help restore some of the traditional buildings that were affected by the quake.

"That's not just a challenge for Australia but, as a first world country with top-class engineering and other talent, design talent, that is something potentially we can also contribute to," he said.

Australia should coordinate with international aid efforts: Plibersek

Foreign governments around the world have pledged support to Nepal in the wake of the disaster and Ms Plibersek said Australia should be coordinating with those efforts.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

The US has sent a military plane carrying 70 personnel including US aid and emergency workers and equipment to assist those displaced and the rescue operation. It has also offered an initial $US1 million in aid.

Neighbouring India has dispatched two military transport planes to help with the rescue and relief efforts and similar offers were made from around the region, including Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Japan.

China said it had dispatched a 62-member search and rescue team with sniffer dogs and had started work on an emergency humanitarian aid plan.

Singapore's government said its Civil Defence Force would send a 55-man search-and-rescue team while members of country's armed forces would also support the relief efforts with deployment of "suitable resources".

Canada sent a C-17 military transport plane loaded with emergency supplies, and ordered 150 troops on standby to travel overseas to help the earthquake victims.

The country pledged $5 million ($5.2 million) in humanitarian assistance over the weekend, and the government also said it would match individual Canadians' donations, estimated in the hundreds of thousands of dollars so far.

Germany, Britain and Spain also pledged support and assistance and Israel has sent an aid delegation to Nepal, including a team of paramedics and doctors.

ABC/wires

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, australia, nepal

First posted
</text>