<url>
http://www.geelongadvertiser.com.au/news/geelong/nepal-earthquake-geelong-region-travellers-safe-after-deadly-quake/story-fnjuhovy-1227322050155
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Geelong region travellers safe after deadly quake
</headline>

<text>
UPDATE: EIGHT Geelong region locals have now been accounted for after the devastating earthquake in Nepal that left more than 2350 people dead.

Previously, five local men and three women were believed to be missing, but have since been in contact with worried friends and family.

Former Cats skipper Damian Bourke is among the travellers who have made contact from Nepal.

Geelong-born Richard Jaroszczuk, who now lives in Melbourne, has been in the country for the past two weeks, climbing Mount Everest.

Jaroszczuk, 22, texted his parents Sunday night saying he was safe but had little access to internet.

“I am so relieved he is safe. It has been a terrible day but the text just came through,” his mother Liz said.

Former Trinity College students and best friends Camille Thomas and Grace Graham, both 18, have also been found.

MASSIVE AFTERSHOCK HITS NEPAL

media_camera Kate Goldie and her fiance Emanuele Bonomi are safe.

Colac-born Luke, 22, and Matthew Deigan, 25, were previously listed as “missing” on the Red Cross earthquake register and are now listed as “alive”. The boys’ grandfather, Fred Deigan, contacted the Geelong Advertiser yesterday to say they were both safe.

A friend of Steve Beatty has also contacted the Geelong Advertiser to confirm that traveller is safe.

“It took us a while to hear from him but he is also OK and making his way to safer ground,” the friend said.

The Geelong mother of soon-to-be-wed Kate Goldie was elated Saturday night after receiving news her daughter was alive.

Lorinda Goldie, who lives in Highton, told the Geelong Advertiser her daughter Kate and her Italian fiance Emanuele Bonomi had arrived in Kathmandu on April 19.

The pair were set to be married in Geelong in August this year, Ms Goldie said.

In an email on April 20, Bellarine Peninsula-raised Kate told her mum she was about to start a homestay in Kathmandu and had arranged to fly to Tibet with Emanuele on Thursday.

Ms Goldie said it was the second time she had been forced to wait for news her daughter was safe while travelling overseas, with Kate very close to the bomb attacks in London.

“She really just missed that disaster by a matter of 30 minutes. It was two days before I got a phonecall back from her on that occasion,” Ms Goldie said.

Kate, 35, had left on her extended overseas trip from her current home in Darwin on March 16, and planned to return to the Northern Territory in early June, before coming to Geelong to make wedding preparations, she said.

Before travelling Kate, a former Bellarine Secondary College student, had been working for Mission Australia in Darwin, Ms Goldie said.
</text>