<url>
http://www.firstpost.com/world/from-us-to-japan-countries-rush-aid-to-help-boost-nepals-rescue-efforts-2214852.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
From US to Japan: Countries rush aid to boost Nepal's rescue efforts
</headline>

<text>
With the death toll in the devastating Nepal earthquake crossing the 3,500 figure, governments across the world are rushing aid and medical facilities to assist the Nepal government in carrying out rescue operations.

According to a report in the New York Times, complete restoration of the affected areas will cost the Nepal government approximately 5 billion, that's 20 percent of that country's GDP.

Here's a look at just some of the countries besides India that are helping rescue efforts in Nepal.

China

The Chinese government has decided to provide 20 million yuan (3.3 million US dollars) in humanitarian aid to Nepal following the massive earthquake, the country's Ministry of Commerce announced on Sunday.

“The Chinese side is willing to offer all necessary disaster assistance to the Nepalese side,” Chinese President Xi Jinping said.

The aid, including supplies of tents, blankets and generators, will be delivered to Nepal by chartered planes, the ministry said, adding that China will offer further support according to Nepal's demands, China Daily reported.

On Sunday, a 62-member China International Search and Rescue Team (CISAR) arrived in Nepal's capital Katmandu and started quake-relief work, according to the China Earthquake Administration.

Russia

Russia's Ministry for Emergency Situations has offered immediate assistance and announced that it will dispatch a team of more than fifty rescuers to help the Nepali government in rescue operations.

The government's press officer told reporters: "More than fifty rescue workers from the Tsentrospas detachment and the Leader center are prepared for go to Nepal immediately. They have expansive experience of operations in the areas struck by earthquakes. These rescuers have helped eliminate the aftermaths of quakes in Haiti, Turkey and China."

In a statement issued by The Kremlin, Putin conveyed "words of sympathy and support to the victims’ families and friends and wishes for a speedy recovery to all who were injured as a result of the natural disaster".

United States

The United States has announced $1 million in immediate assistance to the Nepal government and has the State Department has said the government is making every effort to help agencies already on the ground.

The US Agency for International Development has a Disaster Assistance Response Team on its way to Nepal as well. A team of 60 members took off for Nepal last night and are expected to land in Nepal Monday afternoon.

A 57-member team of the Los Angeles County Fire Department have also been deployed to Nepal, USAID tweeted.

The US Air Force has also deployed its staff to Nepal in support of disaster-relief operations. "The (C-17 Globemaster) aircraft is transporting nearly 70 personnel, including a USAID Disaster Assistance Response Team, the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue team and several journalists, along with 45 square tons of cargo," a statement from the US Air Force press team said.

The US is deploying a team of disaster response experts to #Nepal and providing an initial $1 million in disaster relief assistance — WH National Security (@NSCPress) April 25, 2015

The United States stands ready to assist the Government and people of #Nepal and the region further in this time of need — WH National Security (@NSCPress) April 25, 2015

Meet Pryce, member of the #USAR team going w/ our DART to help w/ #NepalEarthquake response. It's her 1st deployment! pic.twitter.com/flTaJB6MKc — USAID/OFDA (@theOFDA) April 26, 2015

United Kingdom

The United Kingdom government has announced an immediate relief amout of Rs £5mn. The government said it had released £3m to address immediate needs and £2m would be given to the Red Cross, which is carrying out rescue efforts in the country.

The Daily Mail Online reported that a RAF jet was due to land in Nepal today, the first of several rescue sorties that the United Kingdom is carrying out.

"RAF plane was due to touch down today, having left the UK nearly 12 hours earlier as the rescue mission and relief effort gathered pace," the report said.

UK search and rescue team plus medics flying tonight to #Nepal to assist following #NepalEarthquake. — David Cameron (@David_Cameron) April 26, 2015

Sri Lanka

Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has instructed to rush medical teams and specialised search and rescue units to Nepal to assist the rescue and recovery effects after a massive earthquake hit the Himalayan country, the Colombo Page reported.

Medical aid and rescue workers are being rushed to help victims in Nepal, the Lankan government announced, further adding that a C-130 Hercules aircraft of Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) carrying a team of military doctors, nurses and medical assistants arrived at the Kathmandu airport on Sunday to assist the relief efforts.

"Four sniffer dogs and a large stock of rescue equipment, urgent sanitary-ware, tools, tents, generators, medicine and dry rations also saw their passage in the first flight," the Sri Lankan army said.

Sri Lanka had raised an advanced rescue team following the December 2004 tsunami which claimed over 30,000 lives.

Australia



Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott has reassured family members of missing Australians in Nepal that they should not "assume the worst" after the deadly earthquake and aftershocks struck the region, killing more than 3200 people.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said almost 350 Australians are unaccounted for in the region. The Australian government pledged a $5m aid package so far and "will consider what further response, what on-the-ground response we might be able to make in the next day or so," Abbott said.

The Sydney Morning Herald reports that the Aus $5mn will include $2.5 million to assist Australian non-government organisations, $2 million to support United Nations partners; and $500,000 to support the Australian Red Cross.

An Australian Crisis Response Team will travel to Nepal as soon as possible to help establish the welfare of the missing Australians. Two humanitarian experts will also be deployed.

Pakistan

Pakistan has sent four C-130 aircraft carrying a 30-bed hospital, special search and rescue teams and relief items for quake-affected people of Nepal, Radio Pakistan reported.

According to Pakistan's Inter-Services Public Relations, the 30-bed hospital will be run by Pakistan Army doctors including Surgical, Medical, orthopedic, gynecologist, anesthesiologist, child specialist, radiologist and paramedics.

Food items include 2,000 meals, ready-to-eat packs, eatables and bottled water. The team is also carrying medicines, 200 tents, 600 blankets and other necessary items.

Japan

A Japanese disaster relief team left Narita airport on Sunday for Nepal to extend emergency support in the aftermath of the quake, The Japan Times reported.

Japan will provide relief supplies including tents and blankets worth ¥25 million ($210,000) via the Japan International Cooperation Agency at the request of the Nepalese government, the Foreign Ministry announced. The government also announced that around 70 members from the National Police Agency, the Fire and Disaster Management Agency and the Japan Coast Guard, among other entities, will coordinate relief efforts with the Nepalese government once they touch down in Kathmandu.
</text>