<url>
http://www.newsnation.in/article/76875-help-nepal-how-donate-nepal-earthquake-victims.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Help Nepal: How to donate online for earthquake victims?
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi :

Aid groups around the world have poured in their help and rescue missions for the victims of Nepal earthquake.

India, Pakistan China, United States and several others have offered their help. Big companies have also joined in the efforts to help the displaced in the ‘Himalayan Kingdom’.

Stepping up its relief and rescue efforts, India has evacuated 1,935 stranded Indians from earthquake-hit Nepal, even as a fresh feeble tremor today jolted the battered Himalayan nation.

The Indian Air Force flew 12 sorties to bring back Indian nationals including many children.

The UK government also has released £3m to address immediate needs and £2m would be given to the Red Cross later.

The European Commission on Sunday released USD 3.25 million in emergency aid for Nepal while the United States sent a military aircraft with relief materials and nearly 70 rescue workers to Nepal to provide assistance after the powerful earthquake that killed more than 2,400 people.

Pakistan sent two planes with relief goods, a field hospital and several paramedics and rescue workers to earthquake-hit Nepal.

China announced a 20 million yuan (USD 3.3 million) humanitarian aid to Nepal. Expressing sadness at the devastation caused by the massive 7.9 magnitude earthquake that shook Nepal, the Tibetan government-in-exile today announced a financial aid of Rs 12.5 lakh to the neighbouring country.

Israel also sent a delegation to Nepal to determine what help it can offer after the massive earthquake there that claimed more than 1,000 lives, officials said today.

If you also want to help the Nepal victims, please take a look at humanitarian efforts underway and click the links to know how to donate online and otherwise:

UNICEF

WORLD FOOD PROGRAM

MERCY CORPS

SAVE THE CHILDREN

OXFAM

American Jewish World Service: ajws.org

The Salvation Army: salvationarmyusa.org

International Medical Corps: internationalmedicalcorps.org

Handicap International: handicap-international.us

PayPal: paypal.com

Catholic Relief Services: crs.org

Habitat for Humanity International: habitat.org

Global Giving: globalgiving.org

The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee: jdc.org

World Vision: worldvision.org

Red Cross: redcross.org

United Nations World Food Program: wfp.org

Samaritan’s Purse: samaritanspurse.org

CARE: care.org

Lutheran World Relief: lwr.org

The Jewish Federations of North America: jewishfederations.org

SOS: Children’s Villages International: sos-childrensvillages.org

Doctors Without Borders: donate.doctorswithoutborders.org

MAP International: mapinternational.org

(With PTI inputs)
</text>