<url>
http://www.mamamia.com.au/news/domestic-violence-education-funding/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Government slashes domestic violence education funding.
</headline>

<text>
We’ve rounded up all the latest stories from Australia and around the world – so you don’t have to go searching.

1. Bali Nine choose execution witnesses as date confirmed.

The families of Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran will say their final goodbyes on Tuesday afternoon — as the execution date of their beloved is confirmed.

The death row inmates have put in requests for spiritual advisers, who will be with them in their final hours.

Sukumaran will spend this time with long-time friend Christie Buckingham, a senior pastor from Melbourne’s Bayside Church.

Chan has requested Salvation Army minister and family friend, David Soper, Fairfax Media reports.

Advertisement

These two advisers will also have to observe the executions.

Chan and Sukumaran will leave Nusakambangan Island at 2pm on Tuesday, after which they will be taken to fields where they will be tied to posts and executed by firing squad.



2. Government slashes domestic violence education funding.

Thousands of children across northern NSW will lose access to domestic violence education programs after the federal government funding to the vital service.

Social Services Minister, Scott Morrison, ceased a program that taught healthy relationships and domestic abuse to 7,000 high school students, Fairfax Media reports.

The REALskills program in Tweed Heads is set to be cut after 12 years of teaching relationship counselling to school students.

This is only one of many programs to be cut after the government has pulled $271 million in grants to social services programs.

Related content: Rosie Batty on the ‘red flags’ that signal an abusive relationship.

Australian of the Year, Rosie Batty, has campaigned vigorously for further domestic violence education in schools.

“If we are going to achieve cultural change, it has to happen through our schools,” she said when

The move comes only a week after Prime Minister Tony Abbott pledged to make domestic violence a priority at the Council of Australian Governments (COAG).



3. Nepal death toll rising as Facebook launches new missing persons service.

The number of people killed in the Nepal earthquake is growing by the hour, with the latest figures reaching over 3,200.

Nepal’s national disaster management ministry estimates the number is now 3,218, with more than 6,500 injured.

Hospitals around the nation are struggling to deal with the growing number of wounded.

Meanwhile, Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop has stated, while 830 Australians in the affected region have been confirmed safe, the exact number of Australians missing is still unclear, ABC News reports.

Related content: Actor Hugh Sheridan travels to Nepal to find missing brother.

In response to the tragedy, Facebook has launched a new “safety check” service, allowing users to easily update their status if they are caught in a disaster zone.

The Atlantic reports the service will locate users near a disaster site via the hometown listed on their profile, or from where they last logged in. Users then receive a notification asking to confirm that they’re safe or to say that they weren’t in the affected area. Those who choose “safe” generate a notification sent to their friends and followers.

4. Indonesia ignored requests not to issue execution notice on ANZAC Day.

Indonesia ignored a request from Australia to delay the execution notices for Bali Nine death row inmates, Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, until after ANZAC day.

“We did make representations to request that they not do this on our national day of remembrance, but they proceeded with the meeting in any event,” Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop revealed today.

Related content: A final act of defiance as Bali Nine refuse to sign their execution papers.

She added she was “profoundly dismayed” by the actions of the Indonesian government, ABC News reports.

Ms Bishop also revealed Prime Minister Tony Abbott wrote to Indonesian President Joko Widodo pleading for clemency, and had spoken to him on the matter at the funeral for former Singpaorean President, Lee Kuan Yew.

The minister added her own plea to President Widodo, stating: “Nothing can be gained and much will be lost if these executions proceed.”



5. Government authorises culling of 5,000 kangaroos in ACT.

A new licence authorising the latest kangaroo cull in the ACT, permits the killing of 5,000 kangaroos over two years.

The licence issued by the Conservator of Flora and Fauna also authorises shootings in new regions, including reserves close close to residential areas.

The licence permits the shooting “for damage mitigation actions to maintain grassland conservation densities of eastern grey kangaroos”.

“In particular to achieve a grazing regime favourable for the conservation of grassland and woodland ecosystems, including small animals that frequent ground layer vegetation.”

The government estimates 2,466 kangaroos will be killed between April 30 and July 31, the Canberra Times reports.

This year kangaroo culling will take place at Callum Brae on Mugga Lane; Crace, Goorooyarroo, Gungaderra and Mulanggari in Gungahlin; Kama and the Pinnacle near Hawker; Mount Painter near Cook, and Wanniassa Hills.



6. Stephen Hawking gives best response to question about One Direction.

In his appearance via hologram at the Sydney Opera House over the weekend, foremost physicist Stephen Hawking.

He was streamed live in holographic form from Cambridge University to answer questions from the audience.

One savvy science-lover asked Hawking: “What do you think is the cosmological effect of Zayn leaving One Direction and consequently breaking the hearts of millions of teenage girls across the world?”

And Hawking didn’t miss a beat.

“Finally, a question about something important,” Hawking quipped.

“My advice to any heartbroken young girl is to pay close attention to the study of theoretical physics because one day there may be proof of multiple universes.

“It would not then be beyond the realms of possibility that somewhere outside of our own universe lies another different universe and in that universe Zayn is still in One Direction.”

Genius.

Do you have a news tip? Email us at [email protected]

[post_snippet id=324408]
</text>