<url>
http://www.kctv5.com/story/28905503/kansas-city-area-family-relieved-to-hear-from-loved-ones-after-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Kansas City-area family relieved to hear from loved ones after N - KCTV5
</headline>

<text>
Drew and Lauren Timberlake, of Kansas City, KS, teaveled to Nepal a month ago with their three children. The family was working to help medical organizations. Little did they know, their help would be needed more than ever.

Families around the world are trying desperately to reconnect with anyone who may have been in Nepal after the devastating earthquake struck, and that includes families in the metro.

Drew and Lauren Timberlake, of Kansas City, KS, traveled to Nepal a month ago with their three children. The family was working to help medical organizations. Little did they know, their help would be needed more than ever.

Mission Adelante works with immigrants in the Kansas City area, including those from Bhutan and Nepal. That is part of how the Timberlakes became acquainted with the country.

They've traveled across the globe to help people there, and their loved ones back home say they won't let an earthquake stop them.

Family pictures tell the story of how Carla Timberlake's son and daughter-in-law dedicated their lives to service in Nepal.

"Drew and Lauren are servants, beautiful on the inside. They help people," she said.

Drew Timberlake volunteered in Nepal years before he met his wife who works with immigrants for the overseas area.

"It just gelled," said Lauren's mother, Shirley Posladek.

Glen and Shirley Posladek say the couple traveled to Nepal a month ago to help medical organizations.

"When you see your kids do something you wouldn't imagine them doing, you're amazed and very proud," Shirley Posladek said.

But proud parents became worried when they saw the news early Saturday. Drew Timberlake's dad saw the devastation on Facebook.

"I saw the news that the earthquake had hit Nepal, and it was disbelief. Where would the earthquake hit except where my son is," Fred Timberlake said.

But soon, calls from their children offered relief.

"He didn't get to talk to us very long, because he said 'they're telling us we have to go back outside because there's going to be another big aftershock.' So, it was a short conversation," Carla Timberlake said. "They were all safe. He was actually really hyped up, so it was a short conversation but it relieved us of worry."

"It wasn't until we saw the news that we found out how serious it was," Glen Posladek said.

Drew and Lauren Timberlake have continued to document the trip on their blog, posting pictures of devastation and people in need. One video even shows Drew Timberlake jumping in to help, digging through rubble to rescue young children.

"It's just the kind of thing he would do. I remember being so proud, but then I thought, that's terrifying," Carla Timberlake said.

The couple is safe, sleeping in the hallways of a sturdy building. Their biggest concern is finding water, but their parents believe their children and grandchildren will be safe.

"We're praying for wisdom for them," Glen Posladek said.

They also believe their children are doing the work they were born for.

"It's hard for me to have my grandchildren there. But I feel like God guided them there, and they'll know when to come home," Carla Timberlake said.

Copyright 2015 KCTV (Meredith Corp.) All rights reserved.
</text>