<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150428/jsp/bihar/story_16974.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
30000 food packets ready to fly
</headline>

<text>
Minister in-charge of Gaya district Shyam Rajak visits an earthquake victim at Anugrah Narayan Medical College and Hospital in Gaya on Monday Workers pack relief material to be sent to Nepal for the quake victims at SK Memorial Hall in Patna. Pictures by Suman and Nagendra Kumar Singh The district administration on Monday swung into action following instruction of chief minister Nitish Kumar to send relief material to earthquake victims in Nepal. Ready-to-eat food packets were found being packed on the premises of SK Memorial Hall. Altogether, 30,000 and odd food packets would be sent to Nepal and the first phase of 10,000 packets have been packed and would be dispatched on Tuesday morning. As soon as the massive earthquake hit Nepal, Nitish had announced that the state government would chip in with whatever resources it could provide to the neighbouring country in addition to the central aid. District magistrate Abhay Kumar Singh found checking the quality of the food packets and giving instruction to the official of relief on the premises. "In the first phase, we are sending 10,000 ready-to-eat food packets to Nepal on the instruction of chief minister. At least 20,000 more would be sent as soon as we get the instruction about the location in Nepal. The number of food packets is not limited and it would increase depending on the instruction of the government. It would be sent by Tuesday morning. Mostly, the packet would airlift, we are trying out level best to provide as much as possible relief to the earthquake victims," Abhay told The Telegraph while checking the food packets. Earlier, Nitish had said Bihar shares border with Nepal and the people of the two areas have been living together for ages, which automatically make the state government to provide humanitarian assistance. The state government has already decided to treat the injured people free of cost at bordering area of Nepal. Additional district magistrate (relief) Shiv Chandra Mishra said: "A food packet comprises 2kg of chuda (beaten rice), sugar (250gm), salt (1.50gm), one packet of biscuit, milk powder (200gm) and one torch. Around 100 people are involved in packaging in two shifts. First part of packaging would end by 8pm on Monday. We will send the material as soon as I get instruction from district magistrate." On other hand, the state energy department is also ready with their technicians and workers to provide all possible help in the restoration of the electricity in affected areas of Nepal. Energy department secretary Pratyaya Amrit told The Telegraph from Purnea over phone: "Our team comprising 10 engineers and 80 workers are stationed in Raxaul on the Indo-Nepal border and we are just waiting for the government order. They would rush towards Nepal to help restore power supply in the affected areas." On Sunday, Nitish had said the state government also help restore electricity supply in the affected areas of Nepal by sending engineers and technicians. Amrit, also the chairman-cum-managing director of Bihar State Power (Holding) Company Limited, said: "We can also move Nepal from Purnea as well because our work of restoring the power supply in the storm-affected areas has been completed and our engineers are there with us. Our engineers have done excellent work in restoring the power supply in the storm-affected district." On the other hand, Nitish on Monday said the state would also help Nepal in providing pole, conductor and transformer for restoration of power supply. Officer in operation The state government on Monday deployed an officer of the Bihar Administrative Service, Ashok Kumar Jha, in Purnea to ensure proper distribution of relief material among the cyclone victims of the district. Jha, holding the post of special land acquisition officer at Darbhanga, has been asked to assist Man-ish Kumar Verma, who was deputed as special district magistrate of Purnea to monitor relief operations in the district.
</text>