<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/national/politics/68086070/nz-usar-team-not-needed-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Handful of Kiwis unaccounted for after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Handful of Kiwis unaccounted for after Nepal earthquake

Mark Tantrum/Getty-Images "Our USAR team remains ready to assist if needed, and the Government will continue to assess how we can further contribute," McCully said.

Most New Zealanders in Nepal had now been located in the wake of the earthquake there, with the number yet to be contacted down to "single figures" Foreign Minister Murray McCully said on Tuesday.

There was still work to be done to contact the rest, but there was no reason to have particular concerns about any individual.

Communications were difficult and those who had not been contacted were "out and about" trekking and away from centres and from telephones, McCully said.

Some had not planned to contact home for several more days. but he hoped in light of the earthquake they would get in touch sooner. As time past concerns mounted.

He said New Zealand officials were assisting those who wanted to leave, although the airport at Kathmandu was congested and some flights had been cancelled. But reports he had received were that Kiwis there were in good spirits and were being well looked after.

The Urban Search and Rescue (Usar) team, which had been stood down overnight, could go in future but New Zealand would be guided by the Nepalese authorities.

The decision was made to stand the team down after the Nepalese "with the benefit of reflection ... decided they couldn't absorb more capacity right then".

The airport was seriously congested and four flights from India had been turned back because they couldn't get down.

"We completely understand the Nepalese Government's decision and based on our own experience of managing the Christchurch earthquakes, we know that dealing with international offers of assistance can be fast moving and needs can change rapidly."

New Zealand was looking at sending medical assistance and was talking to Australia, implying a joint approach.

McCully said New Zealand had a special relationship with Nepal that went back to Sir Edmund Hillary.

"We want to stand ready to do what we can to be of help and support at a very difficult time. We don't want to get in the way, so we are going to take the guidance of the Nepalese authorities."

New Zealand had made $1 million in aid money available following the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that according to officials has killed more than 4000 people. It would look at making more available over coming days.

Reconstruction would be a major exercise and New Zealand needed to carry its responsibilities there too, McCully said.

Labour deputy leader Annette King said despite Usar being turned away she expected McCully would go back to the Nepalese Government and offer "whatever expertise and advice we can give".

"I don't think we should stop just because there's some view we're not needed there. I think we should go back and offer humanitarian support and of course I think $1 million is only a starting point."

Despite aid money being committed quickly on Saturday, King said she hoped the reason Usar had been stood down wasn't because their expertise were offered too late.

- Stuff
</text>