<url>
http://www.business-standard.com/article/pti-stories/no-competition-with-india-on-aid-to-nepal-china-ex-diplomat-115042700704_1.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
No competition with India on aid to Nepal: China ex-diplomat
</headline>

<text>
There is no competition between China and India in extending humanitarian assistance to quake- hit Nepal as it is the "bounden duty" of a country to help a neighbour in crisis, a former Chinese diplomat said today.



"We do not have competition with India and other countries. There is no competition in humanitarian assistance," former Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Zhang Chunxiang told media here.



"There is no competition in quake relief efforts. Nepal is our close neighbour. It is very important for China to extend a very helping hand. It is our bounden duty," he said.His comments came as India, China and other countries mounted massive humanitarian efforts in Nepal that is struggling to cope with rains, thunderstorms, snowfall and a series of aftershocks following Saturday's devastating 7.9-magnitude earthquake that has claimed 3,700 lives.The former diplomat, who addressed the media here on China's relations with South Asia, denied perception that there was competition between New Delhi and Beijing in trying to help Nepal to vie for influence in the Himalayan nation.China has stepped up its aid by deploying Air Force transport and military personnel. The communist giant has also deployed IL-76 transport aircraft from its air force for relief operations in Nepal, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.A team of 55 PLA soldiers left for Nepal today while another team of 45 soldiers is scheduled to leave for Nepal tomorrow.The soldiers are taking with them four sniffer dogs, five recovery vehicles and rescue equipment, including life detection equipment and entry tools.Beijing has also announced USD 3.3 million relief assistance to Nepal and sent 186 tonnes of relief materials.Meanwhile, China has advised its citizens not to visit Nepal in near future following the massive earthquake as about 4,000 Chinese tourists are still stuck there and four have lost their lives.State-run Xinhua news agency reported that the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs advised its people not to visit Nepal in the near future.Chinese airlines have evacuated more than 1,000 nationals so far from Nepal. The Himalayan nation has emerged as a major tourist destination for Chinese in recent years, attracting thousands of people.Currently, Chinese carriers can bring about 1,200 people home every day. The Civil Aviation Administration of China has asked airlines to prepare more flights to Nepal and prioritise the transport of passengers and humanitarian aid.
</text>