<url>
http://nypost.com/2015/04/27/nyc-natives-survive-everest-avalanche-triggered-by-nepal-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
New Yorkers live to tell the tale of avalanche nightmare
</headline>

<text>
Three New Yorkers miraculously lived through the deadly Mount Everest avalanches triggered by Nepal’s devastating earthquake, and they told their amazing tales of survival — and flat-out luck — on Monday.

Michael Churton, a filmmaker who lives in Brooklyn, described in harrowing detail how he and his crew were at the base camp Saturday when “a big ice shelf’’ came crashing down on them.

“It was about 4,000 feet of snow just coming, and there was nowhere to run,’’ Churton, 38, said.

“So I told everybody to get down, and then pulled my hands over my head and just buried myself as much as I could.

“And, basically, the snow hit. It took about 45 seconds or a minute for it to go by, and everything was gone, all the tents were gone,’’ he told Reuters. “People were pushed, like the guy who stood in front of me was now like 30 feet over there.”

Churton, whose face was battered, said he dug himself out and searched for other survivors.

He said his group was still missing one woman.

Describing the injuries to his nose and cheek, he said “it was either the blast from the snow” or one of the kerosene heaters “that blasted me into the rock.”

Still, he called himself lucky.

“I think we were fortunate, because I think the climbers . . . had already gone up . . . and apparently there was no damage up there,” he said. “They didn’t even know there was an earthquake, so they were safe up there.

“Had there been 19 people just milling about [at the base] . . . it could have been a lot worse.”

Meanwhile, climbers Mendy Losh and Daniel Cole — pals who grew up together in Brooklyn — told of saving themselves by jumping behind a boulder.

“[Losh] said they saw rocks falling all around them, so they crouched down by a big rock,” Losh’s sister told The Post.

She said Losh, 38, of Irvine, Calif., and Cole, a 39-year-old Crown Heights father of four girls, are waiting for a helicopter to pick them up at Everest’s base camp Tuesday morning.

Cole’s wife, Elkie, said that after a day of “terror’’ waiting for news on the men, her husband finally contacted her Monday.

“At 1:30 [a.m.], I got at text from him. It was pretty emotional,” she said.

He texted “that he’s safe and OK,” she said “He has food. He’s in good shape. He’s just trying to plan his return.”

She said Cole didn’t grasp the extent of the devastation.

“I already bought all the papers. We’re going to show him,’’ she said. “I want to show him pictures so he gets an idea of what he did to us.”

At least four Americans were confirmed to be among the more than 4,000 dead.

The latest US fatality was identified as Vinh Truong, a Vietnamese-American hiker.

Sobbing could be heard Monday coming from the Edison, NJ, home of base-camp medic Eve Girawong, who was found dead over the weekend.

Her ex-boyfriend, who identified himself only as Mike, stopped by with red roses.

Also killed on Everest were Google exec Dan Fredinburg, 33, and filmmaker Tom Taplin, 61, both of California.

Fredinburg’s pals had given him letters to read once he reached the summit. It was unknown if he got a chance to.

One read, “Please return safely with stories . . . And even if you don’t . . . We’ll all be horrified, saddened, and heartbroken that we can’t create new stories with you, but we’ll also know that you’ve already lived the equivalent of at least 100 lifetimes.’’

Additional reporting by Priscilla DeGregory

Warning: Graphic language
</text>