<url>
http://www.vishwagujarat.com/international/red-cross-and-oxfam-prepare-to-send-emergency-aid-to-nepal-today/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Red Cross and Oxfam prepare to send emergency aid to Nepal today
</headline>

<text>
Red Cross and Intermon Oxfam have already prepared emergency aid to be sent to Nepal on a plane is scheduled to leave today for Madrid, chartered by the government with emergency supplies and support search and rescue earthquake victims.

The Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development (AECID) has prepared a cargo Airbus, expected to fly today with 30 tons of emergency supplies (medical and transport units and water purification), which has been made available to the NGOs to transfer their aid.

Red Cross and Oxfam Intermón available to citizens who want to help those affected by the earthquake a series of canals and bank accounts to make donations.

Among the material provided by the Red Cross, 3,200 blankets, 1,680 tarpaulins, 1,200 jerry cans and 507 plastic folding family kitchen sets are included.

In addition, Spanish Red Cross has a first relief of 30,000 euros to support the work of search and rescue Nepalese Red Cross, which is working from the ground helping in the rescue and aid and administering first aid to the wounded.

Remember that the Nepalese Red Cross has extensive experience in responding to natural disasters and plays an important role in disaster contingency plans of the government of the country.

The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent (IFRC) has launched an international operation to provide humanitarian aid and assistance to earthquake victims, mobilizing human and material aid from various countries of the region resources and regional logistics centers in Kuala Lumpur and Dubai.

Meanwhile, Intermón Oxfam has organized a shipment of supplies related to water supply and sanitation, as well as facilitating shelter to those affected.

The shipment consists of flexible tanks that can store large amounts of water distribution points, hubs for people to collect water and bring it to their homes as well as plaques to build emergency latrines and plastic to build shelters in these early stages.

Oxfam points out that the main needs are rescuing people, provision of water, food and shelter for those affected, because many people are sleeping in the street and are afraid.

The head of Water and Sanitation Oxfam Humanitarian, Mariona Miret, has said that the government has asked them not to return home “because since the first earthquake has been 65 aftershocks and electricity and water are cut, thus providing Drinking water is urgent.”

At present, one of the main concerns is the humanitarian situation in cities and close to the epicenter villages, explain NGOs, as many roads have been destroyed or cut by rockslides, hampering search efforts , rescue and relief of victims.
</text>