<url>
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/ct-nepal-earthquake-relief-met-20150426-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Chicago's Nepalese community begins fundraising efforts
</headline>

<text>
As many Chicagoans from Nepal continue to struggle to get in touch with family and friends caught in a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake there, members of the local Nepali community gathered at a restaurant in the South Loop on Sunday to strategize ways they could raise funds and send relief.

Like most people at the two-hour meeting at Chicago Curry House, Ramakant Kharel, vice president of the Nepali American Center, has been able to confirm that his family survived the temblor that struck just before noon Saturday about 50 miles northwest of the capital, Kathmandu.

As property damage, injuries and death toll estimates rise, however, Kharel said so does the local community's shock and worry.

"My family is not injured there, but the Nepalese people are," Kharel said. "So we are doing this for them. We are helping Nepal, praying for God to save the Nepali people."

Beni Madhav Kandel, president of the Chicagoland Nepali Friendship Society, said his family members' property has been damaged, and they have been staying outside to avoid any injuries during aftershocks.

"Even though we are unable to go and rescue them, we are able to collect funds as much as we can," Kandel said.

Individual community organizations had already started fundraising, but they decided to gather to assure accountability and transparency, according to Sharda Thapa, chairman of the fundraising committee.

"Over the years, whenever disasters happen in the past, funds have been raised and funds have been routinely misused, and we don't want this to happen," Thapa said. "This is too serious of a crisis. It's a once-in-a-century event."

Right now, what's most needed is money, Thapa said.

"There is always an urge for people, whenever there is a disaster, to send clothes, water, canned goods, and that is not practical in our context," Thapa said.

The U.S. government announced it is sending a disaster response team and $1 million in aid to Nepal. Other organizations in Chicago also are beginning to organize.

The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, a national organization based in Chicago, has been trying to get in touch with its partners in Nepal, first making sure everyone is OK, said spokeswoman Melissa Ramirez Cooper. They will begin early this week to help them send water, food and medication to survivors.

"It's really at the beginning (of relief efforts)," Cooper said. "There are still folks trying to get to the area."

Local Hindu temples and organizations have been directing people to Sewa International USA, a Hindu faith-based humanitarian nonprofit service organization.

A 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the South Asian nation of Nepal on April 25, 2015, devastating the capital Kathmandu and triggering avalanches on Mount Everest. (Full story here)

Meanwhile, the Nepali community in Chicago, which has steadily grown in the last 15 years to several thousand, Thapa said, will continue to try to connect with family through Facebook and spotty phone service.

Two of his brothers, his sister and cousin were on a day trip when the earthquake struck, Thapa said, causing a landslide that washed away the road, leaving them stranded.

"They are on a side of a hill, sleeping on the ground," Thapa said.

The group is accepting earthquake relief donations at cnfsusa.org.

Also Sunday, a former instructor at Chicago's Malcolm X College confirmed that a woman who died in an avalanche on Mount Everest that was triggered by the earthquake, Marisa Eve Girawong, had studied at the college from 2010 to 2012. Girawong worked as a base camp doctor for Madison Mountaineering, a Seattle-based mountain guide service, which confirmed her death on its website. B. Jang Mi Johnson, who worked as an instructor at a Malcolm X College-Stroger Hospital physician assistant program, confirmed Girawong had been a participant.

"All of the students liked her and all the instructors liked her," Johnson said. "Overall, she was a really great person to be around."

mmrodriguez@tribpub.com

tbriscoe@tribpub.com
</text>