<url>
http://www.newstalkzb.co.nz/news/world/nepal-death-toll-crosses-4000/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Kiwi engineer packing bags to assist Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Updated 11.18am: A Christchurch engineer is packing his bags to Nepal, in the hope that he can bring a wealth of knowledge to the country's most devastated areas.

The death toll from the 7.8 magnitude earthquake is continuing to rise, and help is on its way from around the world - with many Kiwis set to lend a helping hand.

Jitendra Bothara was born in Nepal and says he'll meet with their government officials later this week.

"The goal for me is to talk to them, and then work out how we can help. We can't do everything."

The number of people confirmed dead in the weekend's powerful earthquake in Nepal has passed four thousand.

VIDEO: Drone footage over quake-stricken Nepal

The Interior Ministry says that 4138 people have died and many thousands more are injured following Saturday night's 7.8-magnitude quake.

Aid efforts are being ramped up as the country struggles to provide relief to survivors.

Thousands of people fearful of numerous aftershocks are camping in open spaces where they're suffering a combination of rain, hunger and thirst.

Nepal's army has deployed 90% of its forces on search and rescue missions.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala says authorities are struggling with their limited capacity to respond to the crisis.

Tent cities are springing up in Kathmandu.

The quake and following aftershocks have left many displaced and others fearful of returning to their homes.

World Vision spokesperson in Nepal Matt Darvas says over the coming days they hope to meet the needs of 100,000 people - providing first aid kits, water, temporary shelter and blankets.

"Those resources will be going to Kathmandu and the Kathmandu Valley, and then out to the further lying remote villages in the Gorkha district and Landrung district.

"They'll be distributing tents and tarpaulins to set up temporary shelters because they may be in temporary shelter not just for days, but for the coming weeks and even months."

New Zealand has committed $1 million to assist the aid effort and a 37 strong urban search and rescue team left Auckland for Nepal last night.

Among the team are search and rescue specialists, two paramedics, a doctor, an engineer, logistics personnel and IT support staff.

Meanwhile, a New Zealand woman is looking at extending her holiday in Nepal to help in the aid effort.

Aucklander Liz Cornes is in Pokhara, which is about a four and a half hour drive from the capital, Kathmandu.

The 62 year old is raising money through her own Facebook page so she can take goods to outer villages.

"We want to head off to a place called Barpak, and that's been absolutely flattened. A very old old area."

Cornes' own area suffered very little damage and she is now seeing what she can do to help others in Nepal who haven't been as fortunate.

"It's almost a surreal feeling where we're staying at the moment because all we're getting are the shakes, like quite violent shakes, but there's no damage here, no casualties and life is moving on as normal."

NZ Team can't enter Nepal

New Zealand's 37 strong Urban Search and Rescue team has been stood down because of congestion in Kathmandu.

Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully says the team didn't leave Auckland last night as planned.

He says aid flights from India were also turned away from the airport.

Significant similar resources are coming in from countries closer to Nepal, including India, China and Singapore.

In the New Zealand team are search and rescue specialists, two paramedics, a doctor, an engineer, logistics personnel and IT support staff.

Kiwis rescued

The New Zealanders stranded on Mount Everest following earthquake-triggered avalanches have been plucked off the mountain .

Adventure Consultants spokesman Steve Moffat says the remaining team they had on the mountain have been evacuated by helicopter to base camp.

"We had 22 still up on the mountain, so we have 37 people in total in base camp. Everyone is accounted for."

However, a New Zealander has died of a heart attack in Nepal.

He was part of a trekking group led by Peter Hillary.

The family of the Auckland man has asked for privacy.

He's thought to have been aged around 60.

The long term impact of the destruction on the poor country is hard to measure.

Sky's Colin Brazier says four of Nepal's seven UN heritage sites have been obliterated.

"Of course tourism is the lifeblood of what this country relies on. But that as now is nothing compared to the looming and continuing humanitarian crisis that grips this country."
</text>