<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/world/kiwi-aid-team-no-longer-required-in-nepal-2015042810
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Kiwi aid team 'no longer required' in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
By 3 News online staff

The death toll from Nepal's devastating earthquake has risen to 4310, the home ministry says.

A further 7953 people are now known to have been injured in Saturday's quake, a ministry spokesperson says.

Officials had previously put the death toll at 4010, while nearly 100 people have also been killed in neighbouring countries.

Meanwhile the number of New Zealanders still unaccounted for in Nepal is down to single figures, Foreign Minister Murray McCully has confirmed.

More than 180 Kiwis have been accounted for following Saturday's deadly 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Mr McCully said today the ministry was working on locating the remaining individuals.

"As you'd expect, there's a lot of uncertainty, difficult communications," he says.

He would not specify an exact number, but confirmed some of those still missing were on Mt Everest.

Mr McCully says he has no reason to have serious concerns for those Kiwis still unaccounted for, but as time goes on without contact, his concerns are growing.

Most of those missing were trekking and doing activities that took them away from centres with phones, and they were not expected to be contacting home for days, Mr McCully says.

"We hope that in view of events, they will try and do so."

The Government won't make "generous promises" to haul stranded New Zealanders out of the country – it can only assist according to the circumstances, he says.

New Zealand's offer to send a 37-member search and rescue team was turned down because the country could not handle more capacity at this time, partially because of the seriously congested Kathmandu Airport which had to turn back four flights from India carrying supplies because they couldn't land.

"From our Christchurch experience, we know what it's like, you don't know what you don't know so you ask for support and you hope people understand when you have to change your position," says Mr McCully.

Meanwhile, a New Zealand Red Cross emergency response unit - including three telecommunications specialists tasked with establishing local communication networks - is due to depart for Nepal today.

The Government has made $1 million available to agencies working on the ground.

"We have a special relationship with Nepal, it goes back to Sir Edmund Hillary, the ongoing work of the Himalayan Trust and the growing number of New Zealanders that go there. We want to stand ready to do what we can to support at a difficult time," says Mr McCully.

The Government will consider sending the New Zealand Air Force if it is needed, but currently the airport is maxed out.

Kiwi survives Mt Everest avalanche

A New Zealand climber who narrowly avoided an avalanche on Mt Everest triggered by the earthquake says everyone is afraid of aftershocks.

Elizabeth Farrington, a 24-year-old from west Auckland, has written home to her parents describing how she was walking up Khumbu Glacier when Saturday's earthquake struck.

Eighteen trekkers were killed on Mt Everest when an avalanche tumbled down the mountain after the quake.

Ms Farrington was about 30 minutes from base camp on a rock outcrop when she felt the quake, the New Zealand Herald reports.

"We all thought we slipped at the same time, then the ground began to boil," she wrote in an email to her parents.

The group's guide told them to run and she crouched behind a rock as the avalanche bore down.

"The snow hit and it was deafening. But we had got far enough and there was only about 8cm," she says.

The group then decided to descend to Gorak Shep, a hamlet about 4km lower on the mountain.

They spent an uneasy night rocked by aftershocks, one of which was a 6.7-magnitude tremor.

Ms Farrington has since descended to 3500m at Namche as the group decide their next step.

"I've never been more scared in my life. Every loud noise is making us run for cover."

So far there have been no reports of Kiwis being injured or killed in the quake, apart from one person who may have died from a heart attack afterwards.

Australia has one confirmed casualty in Nepal with a Melbourne woman among the 18 trekkers killed by the avalanche on Mt Everest.

New Zealand has close ties with Nepal built by Sir Edmund Hillary, who conquered Mt Everest in 1953 with Nepali Tenzing Norgay.

Read More

3 News/NZN

source: newshub archive
</text>