<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/saf-planes-to-assist/1810424.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
SAF planes to assist Nepal quake relief efforts diverted
</headline>

<text>
The Singapore Armed Forces’ C-130 planes, diverted to Kolkata and Patna in India due to air traffic congestion at Kathmandu airport, set off for Nepal on Tuesday (Apr 28).

KOLKATA: Aircraft from the Singapore Armed Forces began making their way to Nepal from India on Tuesday (Apr 28) to assist in relief operations, after they were diverted due to air traffic congestion.

Two of the C-130 planes were diverted to Kolkata, India on Monday from Kathmandu Airport. One of the Republic’s C-130 planes was diverted to Patna, India, which is nearer to Kathmandu. The planes are meant to help transport Singaporeans home as well.

The Singapore Armed Forces had sent two planes bound for Kathmandu on Sunday, with a third plane taking off on Monday morning.

All personnel on board, including those from the Singapore Civil Defence Force, the Singapore Armed Forces, Singapore Police Force as well as members of the media, spent Monday night in Kolkata.

Channel NewsAsia's Leong Wai Kit, who is travelling with the Singapore contingent, said morale was high among the officers on board during the flight from Singapore to Kolkata. “They are mentally prepared to do as much as they can,” he said, noting that the team on board has been part of similar search and rescue operations, such as the 2011 Christchurch earthquake and 2008 Sichuan earthquake.

Also with the Singapore contingent is a group from Gurkhas. They will be a “valuable asset”, he said, as they will be able to break down barriers of communication, and will be familiar with the terrain of their hometown.

Advertisement

Advertisement

SAF PLANES TO HELP BRING SINGAPOREANS BACK FROM KATHMANDU

In a Facebook post on Monday evening, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said conditions in Kathmandu can be challenging, as the airport is about 1,300m above sea level and weather conditions can change rapidly, according to ground commanders.

He added that the planes will help to bring Singaporeans back from Kathmandu, and the Changi Regional HADR Coordination Centre's advance team will work with other agencies, and provide an assessment of what else is needed.

SAF’s three C-130s with Singapore Civil Defence Force, Singapore Police Force and SAF teams have been diverted to other... Posted by Ng Eng Hen - Defence Minister on Monday, 27 April 2015





"There is an international commitment to help, and as devastating as the earthquake was, we have to help our Nepalese friends get back on their feet as quickly as possible," Dr Ng wrote.
</text>