<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150428/jsp/bihar/story_16965.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Buses to ferry tourists
</headline>

<text>
The state government on Monday helped at least 150 Indians head home after they reached the Indian border at Raxaul from Nepal and sent 10 buses to Pokhra to rescue the stranded citizens, reports PTI. "The state government has facilitated the journey of 150 people by trains to different locations who reached Raxaul by road from Nepal this morning," PTI quoted Vyasji, the principal secretary of the disaster management department, as saying. He said the state government had sent 10 buses to Pokhra in the neighbouring country to bring back stranded Indians. Five more would go there soon for the purpose. A report from Motihari, the headquarters of East Champaran district along the India-Nepal border, which suffered the maximum casualty in Bihar in the quake said district magistrate Bharat Kumar Dubey and superintendent of police Sunil Kumar were in Raxaul to monitor the facilities in relief camps there. District public relations officer Madhusudan Prasad said the police, magistrates and a team of doctors were working round the clock in the relief camps in Raxaul. In Sitamarhi, the district administration has arranged for water and generator sets in open space on the Dumra airport ground and Raghunath Jha school compound among others, for the people who have been taking shelter. Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital has shifted about 200 patients from its emergency, surgical and orthopaedic wards to other hospitals in the town as the building is old and not in a good condition, district magistrate Kumar Ravi said. Sashastra Seema Bal said it had despatched over three dozen vehicles, including ambulances and water tankers from its border camps, for relief operations in the earthquake-hit areas of Nepal. The border sentinels have also established 15 regional centres along the 1,751-km open border to help stranded Indians come back. The force, in a statement said, 7,959 people have crossed the border till Monday afternoon. Singapore plane A plane of Singapore air force carrying relief material and a team landed at Patna airport carrying 25 people. The plane could not land in Kathmandu owing to lack of parking space and low fuel. All 25 men were given "gratis visa" for 24 hours by the Patna senior superintendent of police as a gesture of goodwill and directions of the central and state governments. The team has been put up at a hotel and would leave for Kathmandu on Tuesday morning. "A total of 38 vehicles, including an ambulance and three water tankers, buses and other heavy and light vehicles, have been sent across the border up to Kathmandu by the force. The convoy is led by two officers of the force," an SSB spokesperson said. At the border camps, the spokesperson said, SSB medical teams treated 200 sick people.
</text>