<url>
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/edmonton/michael-dawe-awaits-news-of-partner-missing-in-nepal-1.3049854
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Michael Dawe awaits news of partner missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
It's been a weekend of sleepless nights for Michael Dawe.

Ever since he heard about the powerful earthquake that has devastated Nepal, Dawe — the Liberal candidate for Red Deer North — has only had one thing on his mind: the safety of his partner, Beverly Williams.

"Until you hear a voice or you get something definite that says you're okay … your imagination can run wild on you," Dawe said, his voice shaking.

The candidate, who said he is "running on nervous energy at this point," said the last time he spoke to Williams as she left Kathmandu on April 22.

The 59-year-old woman has a business that frequently imports wool sweaters from Nepal. She had decided to visit the country to meet some of the people who made the products. Dawe said while she was there, she decided to explore more of Nepal.

Williams joined up with a small tour group which was travelling north from the capital to Langtang National Park, which rests at the base of the Himalaya Mountains.

"What we didn't know what that two days later there would be such a horrific, devastating earthquake almost exactly where the was," he said.

Waiting for a call

At least 3,700 people were killed by the 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit the country at noon Saturday. Thousands of others remain sleeping on the streets and in makeshift camps, too afraid to return inside after dozens of tremors and aftershocks Sunday.

Dawe estimates Williams would have been 50 kilometres away from the epicentre when the quake struck, according to her travel plans.

He said he feels helpless, forced to wait either for contact from Williams or information with from officials. He praised the Canadian government's S.O.S. centre, which was set up to help people receive information on loved ones abroad.

"The good news that we've got from them is that she hasn't turned up on any of the casualty or hospital lists," he said.

There has been no word from anyone on the same tour as Williams. Dawe has been told that the roads in the area are likely impassable, and believes his partner is likely fine but unable to find communication.

However, he said the uncertainty of her condition has been a constant stress. The wait has been hardest on the couple's daughter, who is currently studying in Spain.

"Our daughter cries continuously," he said.

"She's in a strange place. Her mother is missing. It's just devastating."

Rather than pulling back from his campaign, Dawe spent Sunday door-knocking in an attempt to distract himself. He said he kept his cell phone close at hand, in case Williams called.

"If I'm going out into the community at least I'm burning up some nervous energy," he said.

"I got to one household and the people asked about it, and I got pretty choked up. I kind of made a fool of myself, actually."

People at the door have been understanding, according to Dawe, and have offered him support as he awaits news on his partner. Until that happens, he said, he said he will continue door-knocking as long as it keeps him distracted.

"Out of nowhere, sometimes you get very emotional. Pretend that you're not going to do that, it does kind of well up."
</text>