<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/world/nepal-quake-rescue-workers-forced-to-make-heartbreaking-decisions-2015042810
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Rescue workers forced to make 'heartbreaking' decisions
</headline>

<text>
Residents in Kathmandu are preparing to spend a third night in the open, as aftershocks continue to shake Nepal.

The death toll from the magnitude 7.8 quake has surpassed 4000, and is expected to rise even higher in the coming days.

There are fears some of the remote villages in Nepal have been totally destroyed. New Zealand-based Himalayan Trust general manager Prue Smith was in Kathmandu at the time of the earthquake, and has launched an appeal to help rebuild some of those villages.

But it's still unknown just how badly hit some of the more remote parts of the country have been.

"We know that some villages have been wiped off due to massive landslides. It's horrific to even contemplate what has gone on in some of those areas."

Ms Smith says it could be weeks before staff make it out to other villages and find out how bad the situation really is.

"We're really struggling to get a good picture of what is happening up in the mountains and in the hill villages… Cellphones are down still, and it's just really difficult. Electricity is down, so people with cellphones, their phones are flat."

3 News correspondent Mike McRoberts this morning was in Gonggabu, a hard-hit and populous area of Kathmandu. A number of four- and five-storey dwellings there were felled by the quake.

"What rescuers have found though is they have someone alive at the bottom of one of these guest houses, in the rubble. They've been here for about the past 24 hours – a Chinese search and rescue team, a Turkish search and rescue team, Nepalese Army rangers are here."

The trapped man has received medication, including an IV drip, and a Turkish rescue team member has attempted to reach him through a hole they've dug.

"We haven't been right up to where he is because it's so dangerous… the rescue effort's been hampered two or three times today with aftershocks, and we've had the whole rescue crew and their support staff sprinting from the area to get away from these other buildings which are still standing, but don't look that safe."

McRoberts says other rescue attempts he's witnessed in the past 24 hours have been stopped "because there wasn't much point".

"It's a really tough decision to make. The rescue workers look at the rubble, they look at who is in there, how long they've been in there. We saw them today make a decision – there's a family of 15 in one house, and they said 'we can't get to them' and moved on. They moved onto better prospects, I guess. It's heartbreaking."

ITV correspondent Dan Rivers, travelling near the epicentre of the quake, says many of the roads are inaccessible.

"There are people in traffic jams who have been waiting for more than 20 hours, [which is hampering] getting aid to the most hard-hit villages – many of which have still not been contacted."

Michael Gill, a retired Kiwi doctor living in Nepal, has grave fears for the country.

"Food is going to get short, people aren't able to get out of the place at the moment .The economy will be in a state of collapse – it's not a strong economy, to say the least."

Mr Gill says it's difficult for those on the ground trying to help to find out what's going on."

Rescuers have managed to evacuate most of the climbers trapped on Mt Everest following the quake. Eighteen so far are known to have lost their lives on the world's tallest peak.

Documentary filmmaker Michael Churton considers himself lucky to have survived the massive avalanche.

"There's a lot of snow just kind of coming, and there's nowhere to run. I told everybody to get down, and put my hands over my head and like, just buried myself as much as I could. Everything was gone. All our tents were gone. We're missing one person – we don't know if she's alive."

The Himalayan Trust, founded by Sir Edmund Hillary, has set up a page on Givealittle where Kiwis can donate.

"The money that we raise will be focused primarily on the outlying village areas – rebuilding the schools and hospitals where we've worked for so long. We urge people to give generously at this time," says Ms Smith.

Read More

3 News

source: newshub archive
</text>