<url>
http://www.gadgetgestures.com/google-facebook-lend-a-hand-to-nepal-victims-see-how-they-do-it/83414950
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Google, Facebook Lend a Hand to Nepal Victims. See How They Do It • Gadget Gestures
</headline>

<text>
The recent tragedy that hit Nepal has shocked the world and numerous agents have started to help the victims of the earthquake which reached a magnitude of 7.8 on the Richter scale. The number of victims and the death toll keep and ascendant direction and people from all over the world have gathered to support the Nepalese survivors in any way they can. Still, it seems like help is offered from the world of technology as well. The American tech giants Google, Facebook lend a hand to Nepal victims, trying to work out ways in which missing persons can be found and identified.

Both of the Silicon Valley giants, Google and Facebook have worked over the weekend in order to come up with mobile based tools that could come to the aid of the victims in Nepal, after the giant earthquake has struck. The main targets of these tools are finding the missing persons and identifying them as well. This is an important proof of how useful internet and connection over the world wide web can be, as both of the American tech giants are in middle of a long term strategy of bringing the benefits of the tech world down to the offline, real word. Still, if you take into consideration the fact that Nepal only has 77 telephone subscriptions per 100 persons, compared to 96, like in the case of the United States or 125, in the case of the United Kingdom, you might observe how much still has to be done in order to allow anyone to benefit from the advantages of internet connectivity.

Facebook has launched the Safety Check, a tool that has two main purposes. Firstly, the persons who are located in an area that has been affected by a natural disaster can log onto the site and announce that they are safe. Secondly, people around the world who wish to know if their friends are safe or if there are any news about them can also log onto the site and verify the status quo.

Google has brought the Person Finder, a system that also connects people around the internet. The effects of this tool have relevance to a larger area, as people can use the Person Finder to share the most recent news about missing persons, so users will find it extremely useful whether they are looking for someone or they have information about missing people.

Image Source: Digital Trends
</text>