<url>
http://www.theage.com.au/queensland/more-queenslanders-unaccounted-for-in-nepal-20150427-1mug1a.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
More Queenslanders unaccounted for in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Another three Queenslanders have been reported missing in the aftermath of Nepal's worst earthquake in more than 80 years.

Meanwhile one of the first Queensland travellers feared missing has made contact with the Red Cross to say he is alive and well.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Adam Jay Murphy, has made contact with the Red Cross to say he is alive. Photo: Facebook

The agency had listed Brisbane-born Adam Jay Murphy, 27, from Toowong as being in Pokhara, the country's second largest city, when the shockwaves struck.

The keen traveller had journeyed extensively through Europe and South America before heading to Nepal.

More than 3000 people were killed in the magnitude-7.8 quake, which struck between Pokhara and the capital of Kathmandu.

Rameshwor Dangal, the head of Nepal's home ministry's national disaster management division, raised the official death toll to 3,218 on Monday.

Advertisement

One Australian was reportedly killed in an avalanche and there are fears for hundreds more.

Of the almost 550 Australians registered as being in the Himalayan nation when the quake struck, close to 350 were unaccounted for on Monday.

The Red Cross is compiling its own public list of missing travellers and those who have made contact to confirm they are still alive.

Initial reports suggested at least 11 Queenslanders were among the missing but more have since been registered.

Brisbane-born 42-year-old Michael Wayne Field and Upper Mt Gravatt's Nadwa Natalie Alasfar, 26, were all listed as unaccounted for.

Ronald Francis Nissen, 70; Darling Downs man Christopher Johnson, 38; Cairns woman Deborah Ann Ducie, 57; and Mr Murphy are among about a dozen Queenslanders to let the the Red Cross know they're alive.

Morayfield 29-year-old Andrew Whitehead, Wamuran 27-year-old Donald McPhail and Toowoomba-born Nina Van Vuuren, 23, were also reported missing but had since made contact with family members.

The mother of Jai Williams, who was travelling with his friend Ben Williams, posted on Facebook on Sunday afternoon to say the pair was descending from the Mount Everest Base Camp.

"Thank you every one I might be able to breathe now," Deb Williams wrote.

"Still have no way of contacting [Jai] but know he will be in touch as soon as he can, (knowing his mother will be having a melt down.) Now we just have to get them home. Thanks again for all the love xx."

A nervous wait for the families of Brisbane men Stephen Delahunty, Adam Faichney, Scott Stuart and Karl Townsend is also over.

The travellers, who were at the Everest Base Camp, contacted home about 4pm to say they were safe.

News Limited reported Brisbane-born 22-year-old Jackson Casagrande had messaged his family to tell them he was OK.

Eighteen-year-old Toowoomba adventurer Alyssa Azar, who is attempting to become the youngest Australian to scale Everest, is safe at the Mt Everest Base Camp.
</text>