<url>
http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ians/quake-kills-three-in-bengal-mamata-rings-modi-third-lead-115042500629_1.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Quake kills three in Bengal, Mamata rings Modi (Third Lead)
</headline>

<text>
A massive earthquake in Nepal, felt in most parts of India, on Saturday killed three people and injured at least 70 in West Bengal, as Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise him about the situation.

Speaking to mediapersons in Kolkata, Banerjee expressed shock over the quake that has ravaged Nepal, leaving hundreds dead and offered her condolences to the bereaved families.

"I have spoken to the prime minister informing him about the situation in the state. Survey is being carried out on war footing to assess extent of damage and we will send him a report," said Banerjee.

Banerjee said she would visit north Bengal on Sunday which has been most affected by the quake.

"Three people have died in north Bengal. I will be visiting the earthquake affected areas in north Bengal on Sunday," Banerjee said, adding that a control room of the disaster management department has been set up.

"We are very anxious about climbers and their associates who have gone on expedition to Mount Everest. We pray for their safe return," said Banerjee.

According to police, two people, including a 45-year-old woman, were crushed to death in Siliguri in Darjeeling district while another man died in Ambari area of Jalpaiguri district after the tremors led to the collapse of several buildings.

"Several buildings have been affected in the quake, electric and telephones poles have been uprooted, and roads have caved in," Darjeeling District Magistrate Punit Yadav said.

Around 20 people with various degrees of injuries have been hospitalised across Siliguri, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong.

At least 50 people, including many school children, were injured in building collapses in Malda district.

At least 33 students were injured when a portion of a school collapsed in Bhado. Ten pupils including three girls, sustained injuries after a portion of the Naimouja High School in Kaliachak came down.

The quake also affected polling to 91 civic bodies across the state with the process being temporarily halted in many booths in the districts of Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Cooch Behar, Murshidabad and Howrah among others.

The tremors created panic among voters queued up outside booth while a few elderly voters had to be given medical attention after they felt sick.

In Kolkata, the tremors triggered panic as people came out of high-rises housing several offices in the heart of the city. Metro services were also disrupted due to the earthquake and stations were evacuated.

Many residents came out of their houses in the city and its suburbs. Cracks were visible in some houses in Kolkata. Roads in several areas of the city also caved in.
</text>