<url>
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/world/article/frustrated-nepalis-dig-in-rubble-themselves-as-aid-slowly-trickles-in
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Frustrated Nepalis dig in rubble themselves as aid slowly trickles in
</headline>

<text>
Frustrated Nepalis dig in rubble themselves as aid slowly trickles in

A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic KATHMANDU, April 28 — Hundreds of Nepalis, angered and frustrated by the government’s slow response, were digging through rubble themselves today to find remains of their loved ones after a devastating earthquake three days ago killed more than 4,000 people.

International aid has finally begun arriving in the Himalayan nation of 28 million people, but disbursement is slow. A Home Ministry official in the capital, Kathmandu, said the death toll from Saturday’s 7.9 magnitude quake stood at 4,010, with 7,598 injured.

Nepal’s most deadly quake in 81 years also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 17 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world’s highest peak.

A series of aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have slowed rescue efforts in the impoverished, mountainous country sandwiched between India and China.

“Waiting for help is more torturous than doing this ourselves,” said Pradip Subba, searching for the bodies of his brother and sister-in-law in the debris of Kathmandu’s historic Dharahara tower, a 19th century minaret that collapsed on Saturday as weekend sightseers clambered up its spiral stairs.

“Our hands are the only machine right now,” said the 27-year-old, part of a group of locals pulling out blocks of concrete with cloth masks over their faces to ward off the stench of rotting bodies. “There is just no one from the government or the army to help us.”

Scores of people were killed in the collapse of the tower.

In the Gallery

People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sherpas, climbers, porters and rescue teams help carry a person injured by an avalanche that flattened part of Everest Base Camp, April 26, 2015. — AFP pic



People gather near a collapsed house after a major earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after a major earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A collapsed building is pictured after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. ― Reuters pic



People search for family members trapped inside collapsed houses a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy smiles as he is rescued from a collapsed house after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. — Reuters pic



People cremate the bodies of the victims of an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man cries as he walks on the street while passing through a damaged statue of Lord Buddha a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



A man carrying his belongings searches for a safe place to take shelter after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A family carry their belongings as they rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit on the rubble of a temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, a day after the 7.9 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and devastated Kathmandu valley, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Family members eat their dinner in front of a makeshift shelter on open ground to keep safe after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man fills water from a water tank near a collapsed temple in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A mother and her child sit inside a makeshift shelter in an open ground to keep safe after the earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A girl holds her mother as they stand outside a hospital during a strong aftershock after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A tourist makes his way through the debris of a temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A woman carries her belongings as she walks over collapsed house after earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People displaced after Saturday’s earthquake stand in a queue to get food from a local organisation at an open ground in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo taken on April 26, 2015.— Reuters pic



Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic



Rescue team member from Nepal, Turkey and china works during the rescue operation to rescue live victims trapped inside the collapsed hotel after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepalese army personnel clear the debris of a collapsed house as they carry out rescue operations following Saturday’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Villagers walk past a damaged house where three were killed by the earthquake at Jharibar Village, in Gorkha, Nepal April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy wades through the water next to the burning pyres of people, who died in the earthquake, during the cremation along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 29, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents wait to fill water from hand pump next to damaged houses in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents and volunteers clear debris from a temple following the earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepal military personnel clear the rubble which were destroyed after last week’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic



Earthquake victims carry their belongings as they make their way through a collapsed house at a village in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic

The head of neighbouring India’s National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), one of the first foreign organisations to arrive in Nepal to help in the search and rescue effort, said finding survivors and the bodies of the dead would take time.

NDRF Director General O.P. Singh said heavy equipment could not fit through many of the narrow streets of Kathmandu.

“You have to remove all this rubble, so that will take a lot of time... I think it’s going to take weeks,” he told Indian television channel NDTV late yesterday.

Many people across Nepal slept in the open for a third night, their homes either flattened or threatened by tremors that spread more fear among a traumatised population.

In Kathmandu, as elsewhere, thousands are sleeping on pavements, roads and in parks, many under makeshift tents.

Hospitals are full to overflowing, while water, food and power are scarce, raising fears of waterborne diseases.

There were some signs of normality today, however, with fruit vendors setting up stalls on major roads and public buses back in operation.

But with aid slow to reach many of the most vulnerable, some Nepalis were critical of the government.

The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen in this photo courtesy of 6summitschallenge.com and released on April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic “The government has not done anything for us,” said Anil Giri, who was with about 20 volunteers looking for two of his friends presumed buried under rubble. “We are clearing the debris ourselves with our bare hands.”

Overwhelmed, desperate

Officials acknowledged they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster.

“The big challenge is relief,” said Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel, Nepal’s top bureaucrat.

“We urge foreign countries to give us special relief materials and medical teams. We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis.”

At the Dharahara tower, Nepal’s President Ram Baran Yadav told the local rescue team that he would send help.

The situation is worse in remote rural areas. Highways have been blocked by landslides, and many villages and communities are without water and electricity, villagers surviving on salvaged food and with no outside help.

While aid has begun arriving in the capital, including food, medical supplies, tents and dogs trained for rescue efforts, the authorities are struggling to deliver relief further afield.

A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.

India and China were among the first contributors to an international effort to support Nepal’s stretched resources.

Yesterday, the United States announced an additional US$9 million (RM32.4 million) in aid for Nepal, bringing total US disaster funding to US$10 million.

US Defence Secretary Ash Carter said two C-17 US Air Force transport planes carrying search-and-rescue personnel and supplies were headed to Nepal. Australia is also sending a C-17 to deliver disaster relief supplies, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said, and to start ferrying out some of the more than 1,150 Australians who were in Nepal when the quake struck.

High in the Himalayas, many sherpa mountain guides had descended to their homes and villages to see if loved ones were safe.

Foreign mountaineers, meanwhile, were divided over whether to continue their pursuit of scaling the surrounding peaks if their local guides returned to lead them.

“For me personally it’s probably too early to say how I feel about that,” said Canadian Nick Cienski, who is attempting a record ascent of six 8,000-metre peaks this calendar year.

“I wouldn’t want to continue if it made anybody uncomfortable to continue, sherpas included in that.” — Reuters
</text>