<url>
http://www.standard.net.au/story/3038916/nepal-earthquake-victorian-teenager-camille-thomas-recalls-avalanche-horror/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Victorian teenager Camille Thomas recalls avalanche horror
</headline>

<text>
Camille Thomas (right) with Grace Graham. Photo: Facebook.

The scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp in Nepal. Photo: Azim Afif

Trapped in the maelstrom Camille Thomas could see nothing but white.

"When I was under…all you could see was snow coming, coming, coming," she said.

The teenager from Victoria's Apollo Bay was in the picturesque Nepalese village of Langtang, nestled at the bottom of a valley surrounded by snow-covered mountains, when she felt the ground tremble.

"There was a bit of an earthquake and my friend and I just laughed about it, we thought it was something small," she told radio station 3AW on Monday.

"Then all of a sudden … it all started coming down. The snow and rocks, just everything, houses, everything."

In the chaos, Camille was separated from her high school friend Grace Graham. Grace stayed with the locals, but Camille fled in the opposite direction searching for cover.

"I ran by myself and I was hiding," she said. "The snow came down and rocks hit me in my head and my back."

Long minutes passed, before Ms Thomas was able to push her head through the inches of thick snow.

"I just stuck my head out and kept pulling myself up with everything I could," she said.

But there was little she could see.

The small village of Langtang, which lies close to the Nepal-Tibet border, was buried.

"There was nothing you could see, all the village was gone," she said.

"It was just white snow as much [sic] as you could see."

But amid the snow-covered rubble, the Victorian teenagers found each other.

"At first we were just trying to help some locals get out of the snow and then we met a French guide – his name was Chris – and he helped us," she said.

"We tried to find our way, we got lost, tried to find our way, got lost."

Her voice still shaky, Camille recalled the terrifying ordeal after being released from hospital on Monday.

"We were in Langtang Village, so right amongst it," she said via phone from Kathmandu.

"It was pretty scary, pretty horrible…nothing you can really explain."

She has survived with minor injuries, but is struggling to walk.

"I think my feet are a bit frost bitten…I can't really walk. I've hurt my back, but it's nothing too serious," she said.

Grace and Camille, who graduated together from Trinity College last year, were enjoying a gap year in south-east Asia, having already travelled together to Bali.

Grace was due to travel to Vietnam, while Camille was planning to return to Bali after their stay in Nepal.

Now, the pair just want to come home, thankful to have survived the mountain horror.

"We're very lucky," Camille said.
</text>