<url>
http://www.ntnews.com.au/news/centralian-advocate/ex-alice-mayor-kilgariff-survives-deadly-nepal-quake/story-fnk4wgm8-1227323176288
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Ex-Alice Mayor Kilgariff survives deadly Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
A FORMER mayor of Alice Springs has had to sleep on the street of Nepal after surviving the devastating earthquake that struck the country on Saturday.

Fran Kilgariff, as well as two Alice Springs tour guides Luke McSorley and Teagan Jermyn, were caught up in the disaster but have escaped injury.

As of yesterday morning, the death toll from Nepal’s earthquake had climbed beyond 2500.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said more than 830 Australians who were in Nepal at the time have been declared safe.

Mrs Kilgariff’s daughter Chloe Elrich said her Mum was shopping when the building she was inside started shaking.

“She was in the shop buying kids clothes when the earthquake struck,” Ms Elrich said.

The former mayor had flown into Nepal that day, en route to Scotland.

Ms Elrich said her mum borrowed a phone to ring her family and let them know she was safe.

“She had to sleep out on the street on the second night because she didn't really know where to go,” she said.

“She said there was an extra 40 earthquakes after the initial earthquake and all the aftershocks.”

Mr McSorley posted to his Facebook friends that he was safe.

“So we just sat through a 7.9 earthquake in Kathmandu ... umm probably the scariest sh*t I’ve ever had to go through, still a little bit shaken up but all safe and accounted for,” Mr McSorley posted.

“Looking after each other so please no-one stress, might be time to find a flight somewhere stable ... will keep you all posted, peace.”

Mr McSorley had only just landed in Nepal on Thursday after spending two months in the UK, and was travelling towards South East Asia for the next few months.

Ms Jermyn joked that she had a sore throat before the huge earthquake hit the region.

“Today ... my throat is a bit sore (so I thought) I’ll have a nap and then next minute I’m being dragged from bed by Luke McSorley cause there is an earthquake going on that reached 7.9,” she posted on her Facebook account.

“Luke and I are safe. Just trying to figure out what our next move is. Any suggestions? What a hectic day.”

The Department of Foreign Affairs says aftershocks are expected and Australians should “exercise a high degree of caution” in Nepal.

“Travellers should expect disruption to telecommunications, transport and tourist infrastructure in affected areas,” the department advises.

Residents wanting more information should call the Consular Emergency Centre in Canberra on (02) 6261 3305.
</text>