<url>
http://www.smh.com.au/federal-politics/political-news/bishop-on-nepal-grave-fears-held-for-one-australian-20150427-1mu6ao.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Bishop on Nepal: grave fears held for one Australian
</headline>

<text>
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop holds "grave fears" for the safety of an Australian who was at Mount Everest Base Camp after a massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal, India and Bangladesh.

The death toll from the tragedy has now climbed over 3200 people and nearly 6000 have been injured, with those figures expected to rise.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Men work to remove a body from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Photo: Thomas Nybo

Ms Bishop said on Monday the safety of more than 850 Australians in Nepal had been confirmed, and that a nine-person crisis response team was now en route to Kathmandu and would arrive later today to help establish the safety and welfare of Australians who have not been accounted for.

"We are deeply saddened by the images that are coming from Nepal and we will continue to work with Nepalese authorities in whatever way we can," she said.

"I do hold grave fears for the welfare of one Australian who was known to be at the Mount Everest Base Camp, where a number of deaths have occurred. We are currently working to confirm this person's identity.

"Our embassy in Kathmandu is providing consular assistance to a number of Australians and in very difficult circumstances is actively seeking to confirm the welfare of all Australians in the affected areas."

Advertisement

Australia had offered search and rescue assistance to the Nepalese government, she said, and the travel advice for the country had been upgraded so people should reconsider their need to travel there while rescue efforts were under way.

Ms Bishop said she was not in a position to say whether it was a man or woman for whom grave fears were held as "details are very sketchy at this stage".

"Communications are very difficult and we need to have people on the ground to verify that," she said.

Ms Bishop said it was possible that an Australian medical team could also be deployed, following the deployment of similar teams by the United States, India, Britain, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.

Helicopter teams began evacuating critically injured climbers at Mount Everest's base camp on Sunday morning, but the effort came to an abrupt halt when a significant aftershock triggered more avalanches and fears of additional casualties at the world's highest peak.
</text>