<url>
http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/victoria/nepal-earthquake-anxious-victorian-families-wait-for-news-of-missing-loved-ones/story-fni0fit3-1227322296604?nk=aba8ae71582d277fd54244ca65f4661f
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Anxious Victorian families wait for news of missing loved ones
</headline>

<text>
TWO Surf Coast teenagers and a newlywed Healesville couple have contacted relieved relatives as hundreds of Australians remain missing in Nepal after the country was slammed by a devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

But a Victorian family on the trip of a lifetime are safe after fears they were also among the missing.

Francis and Jen Comber, from Daylesford have been travelling in Asia with their two daughters Rani, 7 and Neve, 6, for almost six months, after spending 2014 working their way up the Australian east coast.

Their concerned family had held fears for them, but Mr Comber’s sister Kate today posted on Facebook that the family had been trekking but they were “at a camp and they were OK”.

ROLLING COVERAGE: LATEST ON NEPAL’S EARTHQUAKE DISASTER

FEARS FOR HUNDREDS OF MISSING AUSTRALIANS

Healesville couple Kent Highgate, 56, and Karen O’Brien, 53, married earlier this year and honeymooned in Bali.

Mr Highgate’s daughter Cherie told the Herald Sun she had not spoken with the pair directly, but another trekker on their tour had got a message through to a friend who contacted them.

‘Verbal contact would be good but we’re just happy to know they are OK,” Ms Highgate said.

“At the moment we don’t know where they are. But they were at Dingdoche when the earthquake hit and they were now trekking back to Lukla.”

Ms Highgate said her father, 56, and Ms O’Brien, 53, are both trained in emergency response.

“I know when they get back to Kathmandu they won’t be those people who are sitting in their hotel. They will be out trying to help as many people as they can,” she said.

Kent’s son Beau-Joel had urged his dad not to go to Nepal, fearing for his safety, but they went anyway.

Meanwhile two Surf Coast teenagers Camille Thomas and Grace Graham have contacted their relieved parents.

The pair, both 18, were in Langtang when the earthquake hit.

Grace told her parents she had suffered a badly sprained ankle and frostbite. Camille also had minor injuries.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said 549 Australians had registered as being in Nepal, and by ­yesterday more than 200 of those were confirmed as safe following Saturday’s quake.

Families of the approximately 300 remaining, are now desperate to hear from their loved ones. Throughout yesterday a Red Cross website ­listing names of people not yet heard from by their families grew longer and by evening ­included 30 Victorians.

Williamstown father of two Tony Saveski, 41, flew out to Nepal for a holiday on ­Wednesday.

His family last heard from him on Friday, when he rang to say he had arrived, and were yet to tell his children, aged 9 and 11, he was missing.

Anthony D’Aloisio, 29, of Melbourne, had not made ­contact either. Nor had adventurous mums Su Browning and Glenda Rumble.

Other families had heard from loved ones. Ballantyne Forder, 20, from Perth, who had been working in orphanages around the country, said: “Letting all of my loved ones know I am safe.”

Victorians originally reported as missing, but whose friends or family have since heard from them include Melburnians Marie Nicholson, Peter Nicholson and their friend Sandy Ward; Liam ­Oliver, 18, and his aunt Dianne Coburn, 59; and Frank and Adrienne Dyall, both 60, from Yackandandah.

Geelong’s Kate Goldie, 35, and her Italian fiance Emanuele Bonomi told family they were safe, as did Jordana Headberry, 29, of Balwyn.

Melbourne 20-year-old Eden Jack Row was in Kathmandu, injured but alive. The bartender wrote on Facebook: “The shocks are still coming and will do so for some time but all we can do is wait!”

Victorian Richard Jaroszczuk, 22, texted his parents last night saying he was safe but had little access to internet.

“I am so relieved he is safe. It has been a terrible day but the text just came through,” his mother Liz said.

Victorian-born Jamie Lashmar, who now lives in Brisbane, had reported in safe, but dozens of aftershocks had friends worried for his safety.
</text>