<url>
http://www.gympietimes.com.au/news/city-reaches-out-to-earthquake-victims-sofra-commu/2619846/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Toowoomba's Nepalese shocked by earthquake news
</headline>

<text>
Rachael started at The Chronicle in November 2013 after completing an internship earlier in the year. She graduated from the University of Queensland with a Bachelor of Creative Arts, majoring in English literature and creative writing.

A HANDWRITTEN prayer outside Sofra Turkish Cuisine restaurant is a sign of the true magnitude of the earthquake in Nepal.

Owners of the restaurant Moyalia and Irfan Tokmak employ eight Nepalese staff members and have banded together to support the close-knit community in Toowoomba, devastated by the news of the natural catastrophe in their home country.

It was an excruciating 14-hour wait before chef Mangal Gurung was able to contact his family in Nepal's Dhading district, about 80km west of Kathmandu.

"We were at work when we saw it on Facebook. We tried to call friends and families but everything was disconnected," he said.

"My mind went blank, it was dinner time at the restaurant but my mind was over there."

Mr Gurung's family was able to contact him the next day, to let him know they were safe. Their family home was destroyed.

PRAY FOR NEPAL: Sofra Turkish Cuisine chefs from Nepal, Mangal Gurung (left) and Om Bista are thinking of their families back home. Bev Lacey

Workmate Om Bista was also relieved to hear his family had survived, although their village had collapsed into rubble.

"It's heartbreaking."

Both of the chefs' wives are nurses in Toowoomba and are considering going back to Nepal to help.

An emergency meeting was called by the Sofra owners with the Nepalese Association of Toowoomba yesterday to work out a plan to provide urgent relief.

Sofra employees show support for their Nepalese workmates. Bev Lacey

Fundraising has started as well as a blanket and sleeping bag collection.

Sofra's owner Mrs Tokmak said the restaurant's first fundraiser Pray for Nepal on Sunday would help to raise money to sponsor Toowoomba Nepalese nurses to fly back to help.

"They are our family. You can see why the world is affected by this tragedy, once you know the heart of the Nepalese; you fall in love with them."

The Nepalese Association of Toowoomba president Amit Giri issued a statement on behalf of the association asking the Toowoomba community to join with them in helping the Nepalese people.

CLICK HERE FOR MORE TOOWOOMBA NEWS

"In this dire hour, we Nepali residing in Toowoomba have decided to collect funds and logistics to be dispatched to the affected areas and also send medical personnel from Toowoomba to the affected areas.

"Our focus is currently on providing assistance to the rescue efforts and then on a relief program.

"To this end, we are closely working with the non-resident Nepali Association Australia.

"Together we can make a difference."

HOW YOU CAN HELP NEPAL
</text>