<url>
http://metronews.ca/news/canada/1352009/canadian-families-await-word-from-travellers-after-deadly-earthquake-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Canadian travellers found in Nepal, but search continues for others
</headline>

<text>
Some Canadian families are breathing sighs of relief while others wait anxiously for messages from loved ones after Saturday’s devastating earthquake in Nepal.

Jean Bylsma of Cobourg received a call from her husband, Wybe Bylsma, at 2:15 a.m. Monday from Kathmandu.

“He said they were safe. They were safe, but they were living on the street, but they were okay. We haven’t heard any more,” Bylsma told the Star, explaining that she was only able to speak to her 77-year-old husband for a few minutes.

She added that while she was concerned about the situation in the capital, including potential aftershocks and access to food and shelter, she was very grateful.

“We’re just thankful for all the people all over the world that have been praying for him. We’re very appreciative,” Bylsma said.

For other families, however, the waiting continues.

Faye Kennedy, a 32-year-old Ottawa civil servant, has been found safe after being reported missing while hiking with friends in Langtang National Park.

Kennedy was airlifted from the park due to injuries, and is now in Kathmandu, her family said in a statement. “We think she will be okay,” Justin Piché, her brother-in-law, said.

Another Canadian who had been reported missing, 22-year-old Casey Blustein from Toronto, has been found safe at a hotel in Manang, north of the Annapurna mountain range.

“CASEY IS SAFE,” read a message Monday morning on the Facebook page set up to help find him.

Blustein had just graduated from Queen’s University and taken some time off to backpack. His father told the Star he last heard from his son just before the quake last Thursday.

“I am in a guest house and it is really safe here,” Blustein reportedly told his family.

Bernard Le Jour said his daughter, Caroline Le Jour, 33, and her husband, Jason Ahlan, were at Everest Camp I with about 20 other trekkers when the earthquake hit, triggering avalanches all around them.

Le Jour said he spoke to her for five minutes at around 10:30 p.m. Sunday, and she confirmed that the group made it back to Everest base camp unharmed.

“It’s really stressful when we don’t know what’s happening,” Le Jour told Torstar by phone from Dorval, just west of Montreal. “When catastrophe strikes . . . we hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.”

He said while he was relieved to hear from his daughter, who lives in Calgary, the situation is still precarious because the group must walk about 80 km to get back to a safer part of Nepal.

“They’re announcing more aftershocks,” Le Jour said. “It’s chaos there.”

The death toll from the earthquake topped 3,700 on Monday.

Shortages of food, fuel, medicine, shelter and other resources were reported as the search for survivors continues. According to the UN, 35 of Nepal’s 75 districts have been affected, and at least 940,000 children are in need of assistance.

Jennifer O’Brien, originally from Oakville, Ont., was volunteering at an orphanage in Naranthan in the Kathmandu valley and was in a small bus with 11 children and three other volunteers when the earthquake hit.

“At first I thought we had been in an accident as the bus was vigorously shaking, traffic came to a halt and motorcyclists were crashing to the ground and being spewed across the road,” O’Brien told Torstar via e-mail from Kathmandu.

She said she is now sheltering at the Australian embassy in the capital. “Infrastructure is extremely poor here thus it isn't safe to be near any of the buildings especially given that tremors of various severities have continued to occur over the past 48 hours,” she said.

Tents have been set up outside the embassy, and everything is running off a generator, she added. “We have access to food, water and minimal internet access. A group went to a nearby hospital today to give blood and to help out, as well.”

Pierre-Anne Dube, a 31-year-old from Canada, has been sleeping on the sidewalk outside a hotel. She told Associated Press she’s gone from the best experience of her life, a trek to Everest base camp, to the worst, enduring the earthquake and its aftermath.

“We can’t reach the embassy. We want to leave. We are scared. There is no food. We haven’t eaten a meal since the earthquake and we don’t have any news about what’s going on,” she said.

Canada’s Foreign Affairs Department has said there are 462 Canadians registered as being in Nepal, but said that’s only an estimate because registration is voluntary.

In an email to Torstar, a ministry spokesman said Canada was deploying a Disaster Assistance Response Assessment Team and contributing $5 million to relief efforts. “We are deploying an assessment team to determine the needs on the ground,” the representative said.

But other Canadian families are still anxiously waiting to hear from their loved-ones.

Kandy Barker’s brother, Bruce Macmillan, and his wife Kathy Macmillan, left Kathmandu on Apr. 20 for a seven-day trek in Langtang National Park, 65 kilometres north of the capital, when the quake hit. They have not been heard from since.

The Edmonton-based couple had been traveling since November, and had met their two sons, Fraser and Jay, in Kathmandu just before they left on the expedition, Barker said.

“They were supposed to meet back at Bright Star Hotel in Kathmandu today,” she told the Star over the phone from Montreal.

She said her family was frustrated by the Canadian government’s response so far, and added she hoped a rescue mission would be launched immediately.
</text>