<url>
http://www.winnipegfreepress.com/breakingnews/Winnipeg-woman-in-Nepal-safe-after-earthquake-301367621.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Winnipeg woman in Nepal safe after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Pay only 27¢ for articles you wish to read.

To read the remaining 579 words of this article.

Pay only 27¢ for articles you wish to read.

To read the remaining 579 words of this article.

“She said they hiked from Lobuche to Namche Bazaar. It took about 12 hours last night. She’s pretty tired. She said they’re still feeling the aftershocks.

“She got hold of us at about 7:49 a.m. our time and said she’s OK,” VanStyvendale said.

Ray VanStyvendale said his 29-year-old daughter, Karilyn, sent him an email on Sunday morning.

A Winnipeg woman hiking through Nepal on a dream vacation and on Mount Everest when a massive earthquake hit is safe.

Hey there, time traveller!

This article was published 26/4/2015 (906 days ago), so information in it may no longer be current.

A Winnipeg woman hiking through Nepal on a dream vacation and on Mount Everest when a massive earthquake hit is safe.

Ray VanStyvendale said his 29-year-old daughter, Karilyn, sent him an email on Sunday morning.

"She got hold of us at about 7:49 a.m. our time and said she’s OK," VanStyvendale said.

"She said they hiked from Lobuche to Namche Bazaar. It took about 12 hours last night. She’s pretty tired. She said they’re still feeling the aftershocks.

"But we’re glad to hear they’re OK."

Lobuche is an overnight stop on the hiking trail that climbers make on the way to the south base camp on Everest.

The 7.8 magnitude earthquake Saturday left more than 2,500 people dead in Nepal and dozens of others in India and other nearby countries.

The earthquake also sparked an avalanche on Mount Everest that buried part of the base camp of climbers preparing to climb the mountain. There have been 18 people confirmed dead there and 61 injured.

VanStyvendale said his daughter was on her way to that base camp, but decided to spend one more day in Lobuche.

"She sent us a note on the 23rd saying she was going to stay longer to acclimatize to the height," he said. "They were on their way to the base camp.

"That’s probably what saved her."

The father said he first heard about the earthquake on Saturday morning when he woke up and he spent nearly 24 hours waiting to hear word from his daughter.

"We were worried," he said.

"We’re just happy she’s OK and we’re hoping she’ll get out of there. I didn’t want her to go in the first place, but she worked two jobs to save up for the four-month trip."

The woman was working as a receptionist at Sunwing and as a 311 operator with the City of Winnipeg.

Meantime, former Brandon resident Carrie Jane Stander and her husband Kent Stander were descending down a mountain when the earthquake hit.

Stander said her husband felt the vibration — at first thinking a big truck was rumbling down the road.

"I was surprised, since there were no vehicles at all on the small road we’d been walking on," Stander said in an online interview from Pokhara, Nepal.

"Then I felt it too, a vibration that started in my feet and shook my whole body. We stood there shaking and looking at each other wide-eyed. I remember asking him what we should do. He had his eyes glued to the ridge above us, and some small rocks tumbled down when I followed his gaze."

The trembling went on for what seemed like ages, she said, and eventually the couple got a ride into Pokhara, the second largest city in Nepal. It was only there they realized the magnitude of the earthquake and the devastation it had caused in Kathmandu.

"Overnight we experienced some minor aftershocks that scared us and caused a lot of commotion in the way of people screaming and dogs barking," Stander said. "Had another small earthquake this morning that shook us out of bed."

The Standers have been in Nepal since March 30, and just finished 24 days of trekking the Annapurna circuit. They plan to head back to Kathmandu Tuesday.

"We are just getting word now about how devastating it was in Kathmandu," she said. "Horrible that there have been so many casualties and so much damage. Just awful."

Stander said it all still seems so surreal — everyone is still on edge.

"We just feel really lucky to be safe," she said. "We’ve been seeing all the friends we met on the trek around town, which is also really good. So happy they’re safe, too."

Stander, 29, was born in Portage la Prairie and grew up in Brandon. Her husband Kent, 29, is from California, and they have been living abroad for four years now, mostly in South Korea.

kevin.rollason@freepress.mb.ca

jaustin@brandonsun.com

Read more by Kevin Rollason and Jillian Austin.
</text>