<url>
http://metronews.ca/news/canada/1351699/nepal-earthquake-relief-operation-fear-logistical-problems-as-canadian-families-await-word-on-missing-relatives/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Relief operation fear logistical problems as Canadian families await word on missing relatives
</headline>

<text>
Providing relief for those affected by the earthquake in Nepal could be even more complicated and difficult than the humanitarian operation in Haiti, says a Canadian relief worker.

Alain Lapierre said the relief operation could be obstructed by rainy weather, aftershocks and damaged infrastructure, especially in regions outside of Kathmandu.

Further complicating everything is the lack of information and communication from earthquake struck towns and villages closer to the epicentre.

Lapierre, an emergency team leader for CARE Canada, arrived in Nepal Sunday just in time to experience a 6.8 magnitude aftershock at the airport. The devastation, destruction and suffering he has seen so far is overwhelming, he said.

Thousands of residents in Kathmandu, whose homes have been destroyed, are sleeping outside without any shelter, blankets or food, said Lapierre.

But Lapierre fears what is to be found outside the capital closer to the epicentre and throughout the Kathmandu Valley could be even worse.

Getting to these other earthquake struck regions in Nepal may also prove difficult if roads and highways have been destroyed, making the relief operation even more challenging than in Haiti, said Lapierre.

In Haiti access to earthquake-struck regions was relatively easy, Lapierre said. Because Haiti was relatively small, getting aid to people there quickly was less complicated than it will be in Nepal, he added.

“Accessibility is a big issue,” he said. The only way to reach some of the more remote regions of Nepal is going to be by helicopter and that will take time, he said. “It’s very complex and different from Haiti.”

With more than 2,200 confirmed dead, Ottawa has announced that it will be providing $5 million for humanitarian organizations to provide assistance to meet the needs of people affected by the earthquake in Nepal.

Ottawa is also sending a military disaster assessment team, part of the Disaster Assistance Response Team — designed to deploy on short notice to deal with natural disasters or humanitarian emergencies — to Nepal.

Other Canadian and international humanitarian relief organizations, including members of Canada’s Humanitarian Coalition, the Canadian Red Cross, GlobalMedic, ShelterBox Canada, World Vision and Médecins Sans Frontières/Doctors Without Borders, are on their way with aid.

MSF is sending four teams of medical and non-medical staff to Nepal to assist those affected by the Earthquake. MSF will also send 3000 kits non-food items and medical kits to Nepal.

GlobalMedic has sent rapid-response teams to deliver water purification units for 1000 families and an unmanned aerial vehicle which will map the damaged regions and help identify closed roads and areas affected by landslides or severe structural damage.

International and national relief organizations in Kathmandu are all beginning to scale up their operations and supplies should be arriving within the next couple of days, Lapierre said.

Lapierre hopes by Monday more CARE staff will be on hand to help weary staff at CARE Nepal and their relief effort will begin in earnest. Blankets for warmth and tarpaulins for shelter are expected to arrive soon from India.

“This is a very hard time for Nepal, for the people of Nepal,” said Santosh Sharma, a 50-year-old emergency response team member with CARE Nepal, to Torstar News Service.

“Our government has requested aid from other governments to provide relief support,” he said. “So I’d like to request to people living in other parts of the world to extend their support to the people here in Nepal.”

Homes in Sharma’s neighbourhood were totally destroyed, many crumbling to the ground. Two of his neighbours were injured, he said.

“Their houses completely collapsed,” Sharma said. “They had bad wounds and were bleeding. We took them to the nearest health centre where they got first aid.”

People are “terrified,” he said. Many have slept outdoors fearful of after shocks. “They’ve spent the whole night under the sky in the open.”

And now conditions in Kathmandu are quickly deteriorating because of heavy rains. And the forecast for the next two days calls for even more rain, he said.

Canadian relief worker Reena Vohra has been in Kathmandu since the quake struck. “It’s been a rough day. As you know, we had another aftershock. My flight has been cancelled, and so I can’t get out and we don’t know when we’ll be able to leave. We camped overnight in our hotel lobby in case we have to run outside for the tremors and we will do the same tonight.”

About 462 Canadians are now registered with Ottawa as travelling in the region and the number could even be higher since registration is voluntary, Foreign Affairs said.

Faye Kennedy, a 32-year-old Ottawa civil servant and avid hiker, is one of those Canadians. Her family reports that they last heard from her a week ago Monday.

She was to meet some hiking friends in the Langtang National Park, 65 kilometres north of Kathmandu. The road to the park is very treacherous, said Justin Piché, her brother-in-law.

“We’re worried that landslides or other damage has rendered access to that road impossible or very difficult,” he said.

“We have not heard from Faye,” said Piché. “If anyone is travelling in Langtang National Park and sees Faye please ask her to contact us if possible or get in touch with the Department of Foreign Affairs or the media to get the word back to us because obviously we’re very anxious.

“I really want to encourage Canadians to donate to rescue and aid efforts in Nepal,” Piché said. “The people of Nepal are obviously in great need and require support. Also I hope the government of Canada is going to mobilize the necessary resources to track Faye and others down and ensure their safe return to Canada.”

Another Canadian believed to be missing in Nepal is Toronto 22-year-old Casey Blustein, sometimes known as Casey Ryan, according to parents Gary Blustein and Mindy Kadonoff. The worried parents have started a Facebook page dedicated to finding him. “Living with the uncertainty, it’s so frustrating,” Gary Blustein said. “It’s very scary.”

Casey Blustein had just graduated from Queen’s University and taken some time off to backpack. His father told Torstar News Service he last heard from his son just before the quake last Thursday. He thought that his son was trekking in the Annapurna area.

But now the family is worried that he might have been trekking in a more dangerous area. “We’ve now found out he texted someone he actually started his journey in Besisahar. We heard it was more profoundly hit than where we thought he was. We’ve very concerned.

“We want to locate him,” said Blustein. “We’d like to think he’s healthy and well and not able to communicate.”

Blustein also was critical of Ottawa for not making enough of an effort to locate his son. He feels that the government isn’t doing enough to help missing Canadians.

“We’re so frustrated. We have a child. He’s real. He could be fine. He could be in extremis. We have no way of knowing. We would like our government to do something positive.

How you can help

A number of local and Canadian organizations are raising money for humanitarian and relief efforts in Nepal. They include:
</text>