<url>
http://montrealgazette.com/news/quebecers-in-nepal-look-for-way-out-following-deadly-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Quebecers await word from loved ones in Nepal after deadly earthquake
</headline>

<text>
As the death toll from Nepal’s earthquake reached more than 4,000 on Monday, the exact number of Quebecers in the country remained unknown.

According to the Foreign Affairs Department, there are nearly 400 Canadians registered as being in Nepal, though the number is only an estimate because registration is voluntary.

Some have confirmed a small group of Quebecers were present in Nepal as well, though estimates rely solely on personal accounts at this point. With phone service at a minimum, social media has become key for those looking to find out if family members are OK.

During the weekend, Quebec climber Gabriel Filippi took to his Facebook page, saying that despite several deaths and wounded around the Mount Everest base camp, “all Quebecers are safe and sound.”

Then there were the relieved mothers, posting to friends and family on Facebook that they had finally heard from their sons who, though still in Nepal, had reassured that they were “safe.”

On one dedicated Facebook page, pictures of scrap paper from Langtang were periodically posted online with the handwritten names of survivors separated by country — as family back home refreshed web pages until new photos appeared.

At least two Montrealers were added late Monday afternoon, their names scribbled below a maple leaf. One mother, who asked not to be named, cried with relief over the phone moments after seeing the photo online. “They’re on the list,” she said of her daughter and friend who had been missing since Saturday. “They gave their names.”

Muga Rajbhandari, head of the Association of Nepalese in Quebec, said the group started trying to contact family members as of Saturday, but repeated that communicating has been challenging. The association represents a community of about 100 Nepalese families in Montreal.

“Up until late Sunday night, we hadn’t heard anything terrible from our families,” he said. “Of course there are injuries, and a lot of houses and property lost among us, but that is something completely different than the death toll.”

Rajbhandari spoke with a sister in Kathmandu and a brother in Solukhumbu.

He said he was pleased to hear they were safe, but added that they’re staying outside of their homes, fearing another earthquake.

Rajbhandari said family members with ties to the community had suffered head and leg injuries, but were being treated in the hospital.

“The hospital is completely booked and full, people are being treated on an open field outside,” he said. “On Saturday, it was raining, pouring rain and people didn’t have tents or anything. Sunday was a little bit better.”

The association raised $10,000 in relief efforts on Saturday from community members and family in Montreal. As of Monday, it had raised close to $14,000. This week, it plans to turn toward coworkers first, and then the public as it continues to try to raise funds.

“We’ll go to the streets, to the métro stations or shopping malls, anywhere we can ask the public for help,” Rajbhandari said. “There are still so many people missing, international support is needed. We’re trying our best.”

On Monday, the provincial government confirmed it will be giving $50,000 to the Canadian Red Cross from its emergency relief fund.

jfeith@montrealgazette.com

Twitter.com/jessefeith
</text>