<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/474297/india-ready-long-haul-relief.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
India ready for long-haul relief operation
</headline>

<text>
India ready for long-haul relief operation

Anirban Bhaumik, New Delhi, Apr 27, 2015, DHNS: 1:47 IST

Modi instructs officials to do whatever necessary to demonstrate India’s long-term commitment to Nepal



India is bracing for a long-haul relief work in quake-hit Nepal and it will do its bit to help rebuild infrastructures beyond the ongoing rescue efforts.



New Delhi is also exploring possibility of a short visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kathmandu to underscore India’s long-term commitment to stand by Nepal.



The visit, however, may take place only after substantial progress can be made in relief and rescue operations and some degree of normalcy is restored, sources told Deccan Herald.



New Delhi was very quick to respond to Kathmandu’s call for help after the earthquake devastated much of Nepal on Saturday. The “Operation Maitri”, launched by India to rescue and provide relief to the victims won hearts in the neighbouring country, where New Delhi competes with Beijing for clout.



China too responded to the disaster in Nepal and sent its men and machines to support the rescue efforts, albeit later than India. Beijing, however, made up for it by quickly making a preliminary pledge of $ 3.3 million immediate assistance to Nepal – much more than the $1 million commitment from the US government.



New Delhi has not yet made any such pledge, but the prime minister is understood to have instructed officials to do whatever possible to demonstrate India’s long-term commitment to Nepal or any other friendly neighbours in South Asia in such hours of crises.



A section within the government is understood to be of the opinion that a visit by Modi to Kathmandu would build on the diplomatic gains made by India’s quick assistance to Nepal. If the visit is finalised, he may fly over some of the devastated areas to make an assessment and then join his counterpart Sushil Koirala in Kathmandu to make public New Delhi’s keenness to support Nepal government’s projects for reconstruction. The Prime Minister’s Office is understood to be studying the proposal and it will take a call only after assessing the ground situation.



An official said that such a visit by the Prime Minister could be planned only after ensuring that it would not disturb the ongoing relief and rescue operations.“We are ready for a long haul in Nepal and the country will do whatever is possible within our limited resources and capability,” an official said on Monday.



Nepal has been a scene of strategic rivalry between India and China over the past several years. China made huge investments in hydroelectric and other infrastructure projects in Nepal in a bid to expand its strategic influence in the country. India, too, has of late been taking up development projects in Nepal, of late.



In what could be a signal of Beijing’s growing influence on Kathmandu, Nepalese government on Monday straightaway rejected Taiwan’s offer to join multi-national rescue and relief operations in quake-hit areas. Though Taipei had offered its assistance, Kathmandu was clearly not ready to antagonise Beijing by accepting assistance from a country which Chinese government does not recognise and wants all others not to have diplomatic relations with.
</text>