<url>
http://www.themercury.com.au/editorial-shaken-into-a-living-hell/story-fnj3twbb-1227323764682
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Editorial: Shaken into a living hell
</headline>

<text>
WITH the death toll spiralling into the thousands, and as many if not more people injured, our hearts go out to the people of Nepal and surrounding countries affected by the devastating earthquake on the weekend.

While many Australians were focused on the memories of those who gave their lives at Gallipoli in World War I and other theatres of war, the Nepalese were being shaken to hell.

Buildings in Kathmandu and surrounding districts were reduced to rubble, killing many who had dared to stay inside while the ground erupted.

The 7.8-magnitude quake, centred east of Kathmandu, sent people running in panic for open ground in the city. Images of destroyed villages are heartbreaking. Many small communities in this area are vulnerable to landslides, and the quake is thought to have buried many in cataclysmic rockfalls.

The real death toll will not be known for a long time, as rescuers are still at this stage hunting for survivors and unaware of the full extent of the carnage.

Hospitals are overflowing with injured people and terrifying aftershocks are keeping those living in Nepal, India and Bangladesh in a constant state of anxiety. Even those in hospitals are spending periods outside on stretchers in fear the hospitals themselves will collapse.

It is difficult to imagine the shock and panic that must have overtaken Nepal and surrounds in the past 24 hours as survivors struggled to find safety and rescuers worked urgently to get assistance to those who need it most.

The loss of several major cultural monuments is also a tragedy, with at least four of seven UNESCO World Heritage sites in the Kathmandu valley severely damaged. The area is renown for its Hindu and Buddhist temples and shrines, and reports are coming in that many, if not most, have been damaged.

It is comforting to hear that more than 800 Australians in the region are confirmed safe, but this is a human tragedy that crosses national borders and the safety of our people is a small comfort when so many others have been so terribly affected. This is time to lift our gaze above those most close to us.

Thousands of Nepalese are suffering from bone fractures after having been crushed and hit by falling debris. If the weather gets worse in this often frozen part of the world, the problems will multiply.

Survivors will need shelter, warmth, water and food supplies, as well as medical attention. The massive number of bodies will also need to be addressed, as morgues are already reporting that they are overrun and cannot keep up.

This sudden and unexpected disaster is very different to the prolonged hell that Bali Nine pair Myuran Sukumaran and Andrew Chan have endured in prison in Indonesia. Their fate at the hands of a firing squad has been hanging over their heads for an inordinately long time.

Chan and Sukumaran may be thankful for each day they have been granted for life, however the torment of not knowing when, or perhaps if, they will die at gunpoint must be a true living hell.
</text>