<url>
http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/I-Hung-on-for-Dear-Life-Says-Bengaluru-Prof/2015/04/27/article2785346.ece
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
I Hung on for Dear Life, Says Bengaluru Prof
</headline>

<text>
BENGALURU:“I was in my hotel room when there was a loud sound, and everything started shaking. I hung on for dear life as I couldn’t do anything else,” said Chandrashekhar, a retired maths professor from the city, who survived the earthquake in Nepal.

Chandrashekhar, along with his relatives, was part of a 39-member group which had gone on a tour of north India and Nepal. The professor had been in Nepal for three days when the quake struck.

He said utter chaos and confusion prevailed after the quake. “I looked out of the window, only to see people running helter-skelter. A water tank in the hotel crashed due to the vibrations. I left my hotel room and went to the main road when the quake hit again, albeit with a lesser impact.”

Panic-stricken people were running to a nearby field, where at least 50,000-60,000 people had gathered. “Women and children were the worst affected,” he said.

On the fateful day, Chandrashekhar, who was down with fever, stayed back in his hotel while his relatives went to the Pashupatinath temple. “My relatives came back around 2.30 pm, and they were directed to the field where we had set up camp. They found me after a lot of searching as phone lines were destroyed,” he said.

Right opposite the field where they were staying, a building had caved in, killing two. “We managed to stay in an ashram for some time, and later left for the airport. Luckily, senior citizens and women were given preference, though there were serpentine queues. We managed to land in New Delhi around 2.30 am on Sunday,” he said.

Akshay B S, a tattoo artist from the city, had gone to Kathmandu for a professional convention. Reliving the horror, he said, “I was at the convention when the building started shaking. Initially, nobody knew what was happening due to the shock.”

“Later, realising that it was an earthquake, all of us ran out to an open area,” Akshay said.

He said though he was not injured, a few of the other artists suffered injuries due to falling objects. “My luggage was in Thamel, which I needed to get. I went to Thamel, where I saw that people were leaving. I quickly grabbed my bags and ran out. I reached the airport by 7 pm. However, there were a large number of people waiting. The first flight took off with several people. I was part of the second flight that took off around 12.30 pm. I reached Delhi by 2 pm. It was a very scary experience,” he said.

Not everyone from the city has been rescued yet. The wife and daughter of a journalist, who were in Nepal as part of a religious tour, have still not returned. “I spoke to them this afternoon, and they said they were in Pokhara. They haven’t been able to reach Kathmandu, which is why they haven’t been airlifted to India yet,” the journalist said. “They have set up camp at an open field in Pokhara, along with the rest of the stranded people. I have informed the authorities about them, and have even given them the contact details. However, the authorities have still not contacted my wife. They are safe for now.”

Rangaswamy, joint resident commissioner of the Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi, said rains are severely hampering rescue operations. However, they are in touch with the Ministry of External Affairs and the National Disaster Management Force, engaged in rescue operations. “So far, we have rescued 95 people from Karnataka while another 93 are expected to be rescued. There are reports that there are 35 people stuck near Pokhara. They will be rescued soon. We have provided free food and accommodation to those who have been rescued at the Bhavan premises,” he said.

Of the 95 people rescued, 19 returned to Bengaluru from Delhi on Sunday night. The rest will return on Monday.

Mobile Discounts: Vodafone is facilitating all calls made to Nepal at Rs 1 per minute against the regular call rate of Rs 12 per minute with immediate effect up to 10 am on Tuesday. Tata Docomo too has reduced tariffs to 1 paisa per minute between Sunday and Tuesday. Meanwhile, all calls from India to Nepal by Aircel customers will be free for two days, with no incoming call charges for customers on international roaming in Nepal. Additionally, customers travelling to Nepal will also get free incoming while roaming for the next two days. Reliance is offering local call rates till Tuesday night.

Minister’s Gesture: Union minister Ananth Kumar has offered one month’s salary to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund for earthquake relief work. He announced this at the Raj Namana programme organised by the Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled in the city on Sunday.
</text>