<url>
http://www.vishwagujarat.com/gujarat/47-people-return-home-safe-from-nepal-gujarat-govt/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
47 People Return Home Safe from Nepal: Gujarat Govt
</headline>

<text>
Gujarat government official said out of the approximately 550 people from Gujarat, stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal, 47 have reached home safely.

Gujarat Relief Commissioner D N Pandey said, Forty seven people from Gujarat have returned to the state from the quake-hit Nepal. As per the data collected from ‘Gujarat Bhavan’, 27 people have returned to India earlier today. Besides, 20 others have reached the state in a private bus late in the evening.

D N Pandey added, Approximately 500 more people from Gujarat are still stranded in Nepal and all of them were safe

D N Pandey said, According to Pandey, a group of 40 students from Rajkot have come back from Nepal and reached Gorakhpur. “All of them are likely to reach their respective towns tomorrow.

The Gujarat government is coordinating with the Centre and airport authorities to facilitate return of people from the state stuck in Nepal and has made arrangements for their stay in the national capital, a state government release said.

The Resident Commissioner’s office is coordinating with the Ministry of External Affairs and Indian Embassy in Kathmandu and also working with airport authorities for in-bound passengers, it added.

On Sunday, Around 550 tourists from Gujarat are stranded in Nepal which was hit by a massive earthquake today, but most of them are safe, the state officials said.

Gujarat state relief commissioner D N Pandey said, We have compiled the information that we have received …around 550 tourists from Gujarat are stranded in Nepal.

D N Pandey added, Most of them are safe.

Chief Minister Anandiben Patel said, “I express my grief over the loss of life due to the earthquake.We stand with Nepal in this hour of crisis. The state officials have been instructed to keep the disaster management mechanism on alert.

she added, I appeal to people not to panic and follow safety guidelines issued by the government. Pandey also said that people should avoid visiting the quake-affected areas for some days.

Health Minister Nitin Patel said many Gujaratis visit Nepal during vacations. Nitin Patel added, The state, alongwith the Centre, would do everything to bring the stranded tourists back.

The Gujarat Government opened helpline for those who are trapped in Nepal and nearby regions because of the devastating earthquake that wreaked havoc in Nepal’s capital Kathmandu.

The number based in Gandhinagar are; 079-23251900/902/907/908/914/ 918. Through this number, the state government will be able to get information about presence of Gujaratis in Nepal, their possible location and contact details.

Chief Secretary of Gujarat speaking to media today advised the people of Gujarat to not to visit Nepal for now.

Speaking to a Gujarati news channel, one Gujarati tourist from Nepal said that they were told by Nepal administration to stay at safe place as aftershocks could continue.

As Nepal airport has been shut down following earthquake, this Gujarati tourist said he was trying to reach India by road.

A strong earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale shook Nepal this morning, leaving a trail of destruction in the Himalayan nation.
</text>