<url>
http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2015/04/27/what-we-know-about-nepals-earthquake-hit-gorkha-district/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
What We Know About Nepal’s Earthquake-Hit Gorkha District
</headline>

<text>
Houses lay destroyed by Saturday’s earthquake at Paslang village in Nepal’s Gorkha region. World Vision via Associated Press

Gorkha is one of the closest districts to the epicenter of Saturday’s earthquake and thousands of homes and most of the schools there were destroyed by the temblor, according to the senior-most official in the region.

More than 270,000 people live in the district, spread across an area of almost 1,390 square miles, according to the most-recent census in 2011.

A 2012 map of the mountainous Gorkha region charted by the United Nations in Nepal has the spread of schools and shows the district as having two hospitals.

“We are getting reports that 10 people are missing here, 50 people are missing there,” Uddav Timilsina, the chief district officer of Gorkha said. “But it is very, very difficult to say what is actually the situation on the ground.”

Government aid and relief supplies were yet to reach Gorkha district Mr. Timilsina said Monday afternoon, as land routes to the area remained blocked by large landslides.

The Gorkha region contributes a great deal to the history of the Himalayan nation of Nepal.

In the late 18th century, Prithvi Narayan Shah of the Shah dynasty that ruled Nepal for over 200 years, led Gorkha in a war of expansion and conquered Katmandu, Patan and Bhadgaon, all of which existed as individual kingdoms. He consolidated them into to what is now Nepal. That made him the first feudal king of Nepal and the Gorkhas became the men who established the country.

The ‘Gorkha Durbar,’ which is the birthplace of the Shah king who died in 1775, is one of the most phenomenal ancient sites in Nepal. Close by is the Manakamana temple of the Hindu goddess Bhagwati, who is believed to have the power to fulfill wishes. According to local news reports, both these were damaged during the disaster.

Gorkha is also where the valiant community of soldiers, known both as Gorkhas and Gurkhas today, trace their origins. History has it that these fighters took on the East India Company of the expanding British Empire in the early 18th century only to become the empire’s loyal fighters in the early 1800s.

Impressed by the “fighting and other fine qualities of the Gurkha soldier,” in a peace treaty signed between the East India Company and Nepal, the British allowed Gurkhas to volunteer in the East India Company Army, marking the birth of one of the first regiments of Gurkhas in the British Army. The association makes Nepal Britain’s “oldest ally in Asia,” according to the British Army.

In 1947, when India gained independence from the British, as a result of a tripartite agreement between the United Kingdom, India and Nepal, the Gurkha regiments were split between Britain and Nepal’s neighbor, India.

The Brigade of Gurkhas of the British Army is about 3,400 men strong.

On Saturday, the Indian Army announced on its official Twitter account that all seven Gorkha regiments of the armed force are “planning to send Nepali Gorkha Jawans to Nepal with Medical Officers to further assist the operations.”
</text>