<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/jaipur/Bid-on-to-evacuate-people-from-Rajasthan-stranded-in-Nepal-CM/articleshow/47077196.cms
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Bid on to evacuate people from Rajasthan stranded in Nepal: CM
</headline>

<text>
JAIPUR/ALWAR: Large number of people from Rajasthan are stranded in earthquake affected areas in Nepal who had gone to work there as labourers and for business and tourism purposes.Chief minister Vasundhara Raje said the state government was making all efforts for safe evacuation of the people from Rajasthan, who got trapped in earthquake tragedy in Nepal, to their homes. A team of state officials had already left for Gorakhpur near Indo-Nepal border. Also, buses of Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation had been sent to evacuate people stuck in Nepal's Tarai region and hilly. Raje, who attended the meeting of the chief ministerial sub-group of NITI Aayog at New Delhi on Monday, said that the team dispatched from Rajasthan was instructed to make arrangements for ensuring safe evacuation of each resident of Rajasthan to her or his home.The state government has no concrete numbers of people stranded in Nepal but the government has initiated efforts to bring them back and also supplying necessary items for Nepal as relief.As many as 87 persons are stranded in Nepal from Dholpur area. They were working in shoe manufacturing units. The relatives of eight such people have claimed that they managed to talk over phone with them but rest of the people are worried as they have failed to contact with their relatives stuck up in Nepal. They do not know the whereabouts of their relatives. "From my area, 87 people had gone to Nepal. The relatives are trying to contact with them but all their efforts went in vain," a local leader Zafar Khan said.On the complaints of the relatives, Dholpur district collector Kumar Pal Gautam said, "We have informed National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) about the missing people from Dholpur."He said that the government will take all the stranded people to Gorakhpur. They would be taken to Rajasthan by Rajasthan State Road Transport buses from Gorakhpur to Rajasthan.Among the people, who reached collectorate, were mostly women. They claimed that they had a talk with the stranded people on Sunday and since then, they were unable to contact with them.Rajasthanis stranded in earthquake affected areas in Nepal contacting local leaders at their native place for help. "I received a call from Nepal from people of Churu last night (Sunday night). They were around 16 and were stranded at the airport. They wanted to come back to Churu," health minister and Churu MLA Rajendra Rathore said.He said that he had informed the higher officials about them so that they would get the relief and help, which they wanted."There is no such exact numbers on how many Rajasthanis are stuck up in Nepal. But, it is sure that the numbers are quite high. Large number of people from Shekhawati area settled in Nepal as they are doing job and business in Nepal. They want to return to their homes as most of them lost their houses," Rathore said.He said that it is estimated that around two lakh people from Rajasthan live in Nepal. But, it is no specific numbers of people stranded there in Nepal, who belonged to the state.Besides, Jaipur district administration sent a truck full of biscuits, snacks, grams, water bottles, towels and other items. "The relief truck has reached Palam airport. From Palam airport, it will be taken to Kathmandu airport," Jaipur's district supply officer Devendra Sharma said.He said that another truck will start from Jaipur tomorrow carrying food products.
</text>