<url>
http://watertowndailytimes.com/mtg01/toll-mounts-as-nepal-searches-for-earthquake-survivors-20150426
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Toll mounts as Nepal searches for earthquake survivors
</headline>

<text>
PREV NEXT Order Prints

KATHMANDU, Nepal — Rescuers in Nepal are searching for survivors of a magnitude 7.8 quake that killed at least 2,430, including 17 on Everest, digging through rubble in the devastated capital, Kathmandu.

Residents of Kathmandu were jolted by a fresh magnitude 6.7 aftershocks on Sunday that compounded the worst disaster to hit the Himalayan nation in more than 80 years.

Overnight tremors had forced residents to spend the night trying to sleep out on the streets and open ground in makeshift tents.

Aftershocks were also reported in New Delhi, the capital of neighboring India, where the earthquake killed at least 50 people in the states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.

Relief agencies have already warned that as many as six million people might be affected in Nepal by Saturday’s disaster.

Hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley, the quake-affected region with 2.5 million people, were overcrowded, running out of emergency supplies and space to store corpses, the UN said in a statement.

Images of devastation: Nepal’s earthquake destruction

At overstretched hospitals, where medics were also treating patients in hastily erected tents, staff were forced to flee from buildings for fear of further collapses.

There was a little more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across Kathmandu.

International aid groups and governments have sent emergency crews to reinforce those trying to find survivors in Kathmandu, and in rural areas cut off by blocked roads and patchy phone networks.

The Red Cross said it was concerned about the fate of rural villages close to the epicenter of the quake northwest of Kathmandu.

“Roads have been damaged or blocked by landslides and communication lines are down preventing us from reaching local Red Cross branches to get accurate information,” Jagan Chapagain, Red Cross Asia Pacific director, said.

Most areas are without power and water, but with Kathmandu airport reopening, rescue flights began arriving. Workers are sending out tents and relief goods in lorries and helicopters.

Al Jazeera’s Subina Shrestha, who is reporting from Kathmandu, said that there is brewing “anger” among the evacuees towards the government, for the slow effort to provide them with basic provisions.

Our correspondent said that some people are selling water at an inflated price.

Al Jazeera’s Andrew Simmons, who is also in Kathmandu, said that authorities are now reporting at least 2,430 people dead, and only 799 bodies handed over to their families.

The number of casualties is expected to climb as reports come in from far-flung areas, Laxmi Dhakal, a home ministry official, said.

Among the dead are 17 who were struck by an avalanche on Mount Everest that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts.

At least 5,000 people were injured across Nepal.

Snowfalls on Saturday had thwarted efforts to remove survivors from the Everest base camp, where about 100 mountaineers are believed to be stuck. Rescue planes and helicopters began removing the injured to Kathmandu on Sunday.

The quake destroyed expanses of the oldest neighborhoods of Kathmandu, and was strong enough to be felt all across parts of India, Bangladesh, China’s region of Tibet and Pakistan.

At least 50 people were killed in India, mostly in eastern Bihar state.

Al Jazeera’s Maher Sattar, reporting from Dhaka, said at least three people were killed in Bangladesh, including one who was killed following a stampede arising from the quake.

Kathmandu’s historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument, was among the buildings toppled by Saturday’s earthquake.

The disaster is likely to put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism.

The world reacted quickly to the disaster, offering money, relief materials, equipment, expertise and rescue teams.

Among the first to move in was Nepal’s neighbor India, with which it has close political, cultural and religious ties.

Indian air force planes landed on Sunday with 43 tons of relief material, including tents and food, and nearly 200 rescuers, Vikas Swarup, India’s External Affairs Ministry spokesperson, said.

Weather forecasters warned that rain was on the way, with dark clouds looming over Kathmandu that promised more misery for displaced survivors.

The US Geological Survey said the quake hit at 11:56 a.m. local time (06:11 GMT) on Saturday.
</text>