<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Nepal-earthquake-No-end-to-agony-for-kin-of-victims/articleshow/47076613.cms
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: No end to agony for kin of victims
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI: Seven missing Indian women pilgrims from Assam were confirmed dead in earthquake-hit Nepal on Monday. They were part of a group that had left for Nepal on April 23. Their relatives have approached the government for help in airlifting their bodies for the final rites."We want the bodies to be handed back to us. We want to see them for one last time," said one of the deceased, Rina Das's daughter, Nabanita.Officials said they were trying to get in touch with the ministry of external affairs for getting the bodies. But, they said, their priority was to evacuate people trapped in Kathmandu.Separately, Telugu movie choreographer K Vijay was killed in Nepal on Monday when an SUV he was in overturned due to rain and aftershock of the temblor. He was part of a film unit on their way to Kathmandu from Kokhra.In Bihar, fresh tremors triggered panic across the state on Monday, hours after the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said it has discontinued alerts as no major aftershocks were recorded.IMD (Patna) scientist R K Giri explained that aftershocks would continue for the next few days till the tectonic plates settle down. "The intensity as well as frequency will continue to decrease," Giri said.Bihar was the worst hit in India following the Saturday's Himalayan earthquake with 56 deaths. "The overall toll in India is 72," said home secretary L C Goyal.A 60-year-old woman, Roop Devi, and her granddaughter, Kajal (10), died after they were trapped under the debris of their house following an aftershock at Ruwada in Uttar Pradesh's Aonla tehsil on Sunday.The decrepit house had developed cracks earlier when the earthquake epicentered in Nepal hit the area.SP Brijesh Srivastava said, "The family of the victims said in their complaint that a balcony collapsed after the foundation of the house was shaken by the tremors. Cracks were visible on the walls after the quake. A team from Aonla tehsil has begun a probe the matter. A report will be sent to the state government seeking compensation for the kin of the victims under the Natural Disasters Relief Fund."Back in Nepal, the fate of 17 missing pilgrims from Madhya Pradesh remained unclear. They belong to three families of Shahdol district, and had left for Pashupatinath temple on April 23."My grandmother Uma Devi Rathore, 74, my cousin Ayush Rathore, 15, and uncle Mohanlal Rathore, 49, along with my aunty Madhu Rathore, 45, went with other 13 people of our neighbourhood to Nepal," Shristi Rathore told TOI over phone."The last time they contacted us was on April 25 at 7.30 pm when they were in Nautanwa town. We have no information about them since then.''Separately, at least 300 Indians, mostly Biharis, returned to Raxual in Bihar from Nepal on Sunday night and Monday.
</text>