<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/India/Nepal-earthquake-Operation-Maitri-reaches-relief-to-epicentre/articleshow/47075972.cms
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Operation Maitri reaches relief to epicentre
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI: India on Monday gave a massive thrust to its rescue and relief mission in quake-devastated Nepal - 'Operation Maitri' - pressing into service 12 heavy-duty military aircraft and 18 helicopters besides opening up four land routes to connect to Kathmandu and Pokhara valley to reach out to the affected with men and material. The joint Army-Air Force operation managed to evacuate 5,400 people till Monday, including 30 foreigners, who were stuck in Nepal. Foreign secretary S Jaishankar said India had received requests from several countries to rescue their stranded nationals.After the third day of relief and rescue operations, the foreign secretary said congestion in Kathmandu airport had forced four of India's military aircraft to return due to non-availability of landing space. Of the 18 helicopters, six have been kept on standby, he said.The government has deployed 10 teams of the National Disaster Response Force, each comprising 45 well-equipped personnel trained in disaster rescue operations. Three more NDRF teams were rushed on Monday, he said.On Monday, Indian soldiers were able to reach parts of the worst-affected Pokhra region, the epicentre of the temblor, by helicopters and dropped relief material. The Indian Army set up a camp at the epicentre."After Kathmandu, the NDRF teams will move out to surrounding areas," home secretary L C Goyal said.The focus on Monday was to restore the power in Kathmandu and other parts of the Himalayan state with the help of a team of Power Grid officials. New Delhi has also sent another team from Indian Oil to ensure continuous fuel supply.The foreign secretary said four land routes were opened to Kathmandu, removing the blockage on Sunauli-Bhairawah link. Other routes opened for road traffic include the Janakpur and Raxaul-Birganj routes in Bihar and Mahendra Nagar in Uttarakhand. At least 100 buses with relief material, including food packets, water, medicines and equipment were dispatched.The government has sent one RO plant for restoring drinking water supply and oxygen regenerators. Army personnel on Monday reached interiors of the Himalayan country. While the main Taskforce Hq operated from Kathmandu, a sub-hq was set up at Barpak Village in Gorkha district, the epicentre of the quake.An engineering task force, consisting of 40 soldiers, five earth-movers and generators, is already operational 5-km outside Kathmandu. Ten more such taskforces are planned as Kathmandu-Pokhara road has been restored.Six choppers were inducted in Pokhara for rescue and relief operations with the rest operating in Kathmandu and surrounding areas. The Army is setting up three field hospitals, consisting of 18 medical teams with surgeons, with one already set up at Radalgrah, near Lalitpur. In addition the Air Force has airlifted a rapid aero-medical team.The Army has deployed six ambulances while the Shashtra Seema Bal is sending 10 more to the quake- affected areas. The home ministry has asked SSB to assist in rescue efforts through India's land routes to Nepal. Supply of relief material will be carried out through these land routes.The government also launched a national disaster helpline -011-1078—for people to access information.
</text>