<url>
http://www.gazzettadelsud.it/news/139336/Four-Italians-dead-in-Nepal-quake.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Four Italians dead in Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
Rome, April 27 - Four Italians were confirmed dead in Saturday's 7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal but the toll is expected to rise as there is an unspecified number of missing. Cavers Gigliola Mancinelli and Oskar Piazza and trekkers Renzo Benedetti and Marco Pojer were confirmed dead. Iolanda Mattevi, a 52-year-old native of Trento who saw her two companions Benedetti and Pojer die, told ANSA on Monday her eyewitness account of the quake. "I heard a roar behind me and then I saw a cloud that was coming down, pushed by a frightening wind. I started to run, but I was struck by a rain of rocks and snow," she said, describing the landslide that she survived during the quake that killed two of her traveling companions, Renzo Benedetti and Marco Pojer. Mattevi arrived in Nepal in early April with Benedetti, Pojer, and a third friend, Attilio Dantone, for the trip she'd "always dreamed of" . The group was hiking at 3,500 metres in the Langtang Valley situated north of Kathmandu when the quake struck. Mattevi said Benedetti and Pojer had left the group to deliver some medicine to an elderly Nepalese woman and that they were to join the group later down the trail. When the quake struck, "our friends were hit full on, while I found refuge under a rock and that's how I survived," said Dantone, an Alpine hiking guide who manages a mountain refuge in Italy's Cembra Valley. Mattevi is in hospital with a fractured forearm and finger, and will remain under observation for some days. A Nepalese guide and two cooks who were accompanying the Italians on their excursion were also killed in the quake. As for Piazza and Mancinelli, the two cavers who died, relatives told ANSA they had decided not to go caving on the day of the quake because of bad weather. Mancinelli was a 51-year-old anesthetist and Ancona native, while Piazza was a member of the Trentino Alto Adige Alpine Rescue. It was hard to put names or numbers to those missing amid reports that some had phoned home to say they were safe and unconfirmed estimates that Italy, like France, could have had over 100 climbers, trekkers and cavers in the area when the quake struck. Meanwhile the toll continued to climb. "The toll is continuing to rise steadily," Caritas Nepal director Father Pius Perumana told the Fides news agency. "We are at over 3,000 but the estimates could touch 6,000 people considering the districts hit," he said. "There an estimated 5,000 injured and thousands have been evacuated or are homeless". The official death toll reached 4,000 but Nepalese authorities stressed this was provisional because many outlying villages and towns had not been reached. One of five Italian mountaineers who escaped the quake and made it to a scientific base camp on Mount Everest said Monday their brush with death was harrowing. "We stared death in the face," said Vicenza-area native Mario Vielmo, speaking from the Ev-K2-CNR Association's Pyramid International Laboratory-Observatory at 5,050 meters altitude on the Nepal slope of Mount Everest. The Pyramid Lab was built in 1987 and has become the hub of an international network of 29 climate-tracking stations. The other four Italians who escaped death on the mountain are Claudio Tessarolo and Annalisa Fioretti, both from Vicenza, Sebastiano Valentini di Canazei from Trento, and Marco Sala, from the Belluno area. "We're all fine," Vielmo said. "We've been spared". Also on Monday, the Ev-K2-CNR Association - a private scientific association working with Italy's National Research Center (CNR) - said Sherpa mountain guides reported an unconfirmed number of people have been swallowed up by ice crevices that opened between Base Camp and Camp 1 as a result of the earthquake. Some two million minors are in need of aid and 30 out of 75 districts of Nepal have been affected by the violent earthquake, said Save the Children NGO. As well, the Italian Episcopal Conference (CEI) has announced it will allocate three million euros in emergency aid to be distributed by the Apostolic Nuncio in Nepal, Monsignor Salvatore Pennacchio. Meanwhile, Italy has already earmarked hundreds of thousands of euros for aid to Nepal and has sent a crisis team to the capital of Kathmandu, Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni said in Beijing. "We'll assess whether the conditions are there for the recovery of cultural assets," he added. "But right now we must focus on the missing, the wounded, and the Italians who are stuck (in Nepal) and are trying to leave". The international aid effort for Nepal gathered pace, with China, India, Pakistan and Britain among the countries contributing to the effort, alongside major aid agencies. Nepal has asked for more help, saying it needs everything from helicopters and blankets to paramedics and drivers. At least 200 climbers have now been rescued around Mount Everest, after the quake triggered avalanches. Vast tent cities have sprung up in Kathmandu for those displaced or afraid to return to their homes. Across the country, thousands spent Sunday night - their second night - outside. There are shortages of water, food and electricity, while disease is also a concern.
</text>