<url>
http://thestreetjournal.org/2015/04/nepal-earthquake-update-death-toll-hits-3400/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake Update: Death Toll Hits 3,400
</headline>

<text>
Death toll in Saturday’s massive earthquake has hit over 3,400. Also more than 6,500 people have been injured, according to the National Emergency Operation Centre. Dozens of people are also reported to have been killed in neighbouring China and India.

Thousands have spent a second night outside after the 7.8-magnitude quake, which also triggered deadly avalanches around Mount Everest.

Vast tent cities have sprung up in Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu, for those displaced or afraid to return to their homes as strong aftershocks continue.

Officials have warned that the number of casualties could rise as rescue teams reach remote mountainous areas of western Nepal.

Initial reports suggest that many communities, especially those close to mountainsides, suffered significant quake damage.

“Villages like this are routinely affected by landslides, and it’s not uncommon for entire villages of 200, 300, up to 1,000 people to be completely buried by rock falls,” Matt Darvas, spokesman for aid agency World Vision said.

A man evacuated by helicopter to Pokhara, 200km from Kathmandu, said almost every home in his village of more than 1,000 houses had been destroyed.

Local people have been using basic tools to dig through rubble in badly hit towns like Bhaktapur

Cremations of the dead took place across Nepal on Sunday

A team of Indian rescue personnel look for survivors in a Kathmandu building – such searches are still continuing but winding down

In Dhading district, 80km west of Kathmandu, people were camped in the open, the hospital was overflowing, the power was off and shops were closed, Reuters news agency reported.

A senior official in Gorkha district, the location of the earthquake’s epicentre, told AP he had heard reports of 70 per cent of houses being destroyed.

“Things are really bad in the district, especially in remote mountain villages,” Udav Prashad Timalsin said. “There are people who are not getting food and shelter.”

Among villages affected are some inhabited by Tibetans, many of whom have sought refuge in Nepal. Bridim, north of Kathmandu, is reported to have been virtually flattened.

The roads to where the epicentre was, northwest of the capital, have been cleared and rescue teams are on their way.

Rescue missions and aid are arriving in Nepal to help cope with the aftermath of the earthquake, the worst to hit Nepal for more than 80 years.

Efforts to dig victims out from under the rubble of collapsed buildings in Kathmandu are also continuing.

But home ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dhakal told Reuters rescuers were “in a really bad shape” after working non-stop for two days. “We are all about to collapse.”

A powerful aftershock was felt on Sunday in Nepal, India and Bangladesh, and more avalanches were reported near Everest.

Share this: Facebook

LinkedIn

Google

Email

Print

Twitter


</text>