<url>
http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-amateur-drone-footage-reveals-kathmandu-damage-as-toll-tops-4000/story-fni0xs63-1227324073782?nk=070ee115eae3fd93e1d74999a6ca6792
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Amateur drone footage reveals Kathmandu damage as toll tops 4000
</headline>

<text>
INCREDIBLE drone footage has emerged showing the extent of the devastation caused by the earthquake in Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu.

Kishor Rana’s amateur video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.

The number of people confirmed dead in the weekend’s powerful earthquake has passed 4000, and aid efforts are being ramped up as the country struggles to provide relief to survivors.

The Interior Ministry said on Monday that 4400 had died and many thousands more were injured in Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake.

media_camera Irreplaceable ... an aerial perspective reveals the extent of quake damage to Kathmandu’s heritage sites. Picture: Supplied media_camera Collapsed ... amateur drone footage shows Kathmandu buildings with their broken beams piled like matchsticks. Picture: Supplied

media_camera Damaged infrastructure ... a massive gouge can be seen in a Kathmandu thoroughfare in Kishor Rana’s amateur drone video.

Australians caught up in the Nepal earthquake will be evacuated by defence planes if required. Foreign Minister Julie Bishop this morning confirmed there were now 1150 Australians accounted for in the country.

She said if those stranded were unable to get a commercial flight out of the country, defence planes would help them get out.

“Australia will assist any Australian to depart Nepal if they are unable to get a commercial airline,” Ms Bishop told ABC radio.

“Our Australian defence force aircraft are taking supplies in so they can take commercial flights out to Bangkok and Australians should be able to get commercial flights out from there.”

Among the thousands of tragedies, there was one piece of good news with the revelation that actor Hugh Sheridan’s brother Zachary was alive and well.

Authorities struggle to respond

Besides the fear caused by numerous aftershocks, thousands of people camping in open spaces were suffering a combination of rain, hunger and thirst.

Nepal’s army deployed 90 per cent of its forces on search and rescue missions, with military official Jagdish Chandra Pokharel saying the army was “working on a war footing”.

media_camera Desperate ... drone footage reveals hundreds camping in a park and suffering a combination of rain, hunger and thirst. Picture: Supplied

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said authorities were struggling with their limited capacity to respond to the crisis.

The government has only six helicopters, with 20 other helicopters in private hands. “We are expecting more foreign help now and now need to work on cremating people, on sanitation, on clean drinking water,” Koirala said.

Hospitals damaged by the quake were treating patients in improvised outdoor clinics, while streets near Kathmandu’s Teaching Hospital were lined with vehicles as people continued to bring the injured.

media_camera Surrounded by debris ... Earthquake damage in the World Heritage listed Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Pic Nathan Edwards

media_camera All hands on deck ... Soldiers in Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Pic Nathan Edwards

Aid workers who had reached the edges of the epicentre described entire villages reduced to rubble.

“In some villages, about 90 percent of the houses have collapsed. They’re just flattened,” said Rebecca McAteer, an American physician who rushed to the quake zone from the distant Nepal hospital where she works.

And yet, the timing of the earthquake - near midday, when most rural people are working in the fields - meant most villagers were spared of injuries when buildings collapsed, she said. So far, police say they have 373 confirmed deaths in the Gorkha district.

Most those injured, she added, were young people and the elderly, since most young men long ago left their villages in search of better-paying work.

“The immediate need is getting support to where it’s needed, but there will be a lot of work rebuilding,” said McAteer, who was heading back soon to the center of the quake zone.

Thomas Meyer, an engineer with the International Nepal Fellowship who accompanied McAteer to the devastated villages, noted the disaster’s aftermath would stretch long into the future.

“This is a long-term emergency,” he said. “This will need major attention for the next five years. People have nothing left.”

Pramod Karki, who was staying in a camp near his house in the capital’s Kalanki district, said: “There is no space. So at least 50 people are crammed in an open area in our neighbourhood.”

Chief Secretary Lilamani Poudel has asked all government employees to work to help the injured and the displaced.

Mass cremations were being held in some places in the capital, with the government saying they were a necessary measure to prevent disease from spreading.

media_camera Daily life upended ... A woman walks through the wreckage near Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Pic Nathan Edwards

media_camera Farewells ... a woman weeps during the cremation of an earthquake victim at the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu. Picture: AP/Bernat Armangue

Australian among foreign fatalities

The Tourism Ministry said it was also focusing on rescuing the foreigners trapped around the country, including people on climbing expeditions.

“We rescued around 82 people from the Everest Base Camp yesterday,” ministry secretary Suresh Man Shrestha said.

Australian Renu Fotedar was among 19 people killed on Mount Everest, the world’s highest peak. Ms Fotedar was climbing in the Himalayas for the first time when she was carried to her death along with 18 others, including two US nationals and one Chinese. The other victims were Nepalese.

media_camera Australian Renu Fotedar was among 19 people killed on Mount Everest. Picture: renufotedar.com media_camera Difficult terrain ... an injured person is carried to a helicopter at Everest Base Camp, a day after an avalanche swept through. Picture: AFP/Robero Schmidt

Sixty people were injured and were receiving treatment at various hospitals, Mr Shrestha said.

Dreamers Destination Treks and Expeditions’ spokesman Temba Tsheri described terrifying scenes as a wall of ice and snow more than five storeys tall hit Everest base camp.

Mr Tsheri was told by sherpas Ms Fotedar stood no chance: “She was right in base camp. She was inside the tent. A big avalanche came and a lot of people were carried away. There was no time. It was so fast. They didn’t get the chance to run away. There was no place to hide.”

Dramatic footage from the disaster on Everest emerged on Monday, with video showing an avalanche rising like a cloud of smoke and then crashing down and engulfing the campsite.

According to the Tourism Ministry more than 1000 climbers, including more than 490 foreigners, were present at the Base Camp when the earthquake struck.

Mr Shrestha said helicopters were deployed to rescue about 200 climbers trapped at camps one and two.

Across the country efforts were under way to fix phone lines and restore power on Monday, the prime minister said.

Aid groups prepare ‘massive’ action

India had so far dispatched 400 tons of relief materials and basic supplies, according to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. Pakistan had set up temporary medical camps.

Chinese rescue teams began searching for victims and survivors in the capital.

The Asian Development Bank pledged up to US$200 million ($256 million) in credit for the first phase of rehabilitation and said it was sending US$3 million as a grant for tents, medicines, food and drinking water.

media_camera Massive effort ... a Chinese Red Cross worker transports tents at a warehouse in Beijing. Picture: AP Photo/Isolda Morillo

Britain has pledged US$7.5 million and Canada has promised US$4.1 million.

Fourteen of the European Union’s 28 member states have offered to send first aid teams and equipment, a spokeswoman for the bloc’s executive said.

There was also hi-tech help from Facebook and Google, which added functions to their online platforms to help people find friends and relatives caught in the quake.

Humanitarian agencies say they are preparing a large-scale aid operation to earthquake-ravaged Nepal, with more relief planes arriving in the coming hours.

media_camera Remote ... rescue workers are still struggling to reach affected villages two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Photo/Altaf Qadri media_camera Vulnerable ... a child injured in Saturday’s earthquake is evacuated by the Indian Air Force. Picture: AP Photo/Altaf Qadri

Elisabeth Byrs, spokeswoman for the UN’s World Food Program says it will be a massive operation.

The World Health Organisation has already distributed medical supplies to cover the health needs of more than 40-thousand people for three months.

The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies have launched an emergency appeal for millions of dollars to cope with the crisis and cater for about 75-thousand people over the next 18 months.

Originally published as Drone reveals quake devastation
</text>