<url>
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2015/04/27/nepal-earthquake-search-rescue-death-toll/26436871/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Death toll in Nepal hits 4,000 amid hunt for survivors
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The death toll from Nepal's earthquake rose to 3,218 on Monday, two days after the massive quake ripped across this Himalayan nation, leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (April 27) AP

Nepalese residents carry belongings from their destroyed homes as they walk through debris of Saturday's earthquake, in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal, on Monday. (Photo: Niranjan Shrestha, AP)

Rescuers in Nepal desperately searched Monday for survivors who may be buried amid the rubble in the capital of Katmandu or trapped in remote mountain villages, as the death toll soared past 4,300 from Saturday's massive earthquake.

The tally could rise further after officials assess the damage to communities nestled in the mountains. Efforts to reach those remote villages have so far been hampered by landslides that have blocked many mountain trails.

Three Americans are among those killed on Mount Everest after the quake triggered an avalanche.

Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for the Gorkha district, where the magnitude-7.8 quake was centered, said he was in desperate need of help. "There are people who are not getting food and shelter. I've had reports of villages where 70% of the houses have been destroyed," he said, according to the Associated Press.

Timalsina said 223 people had been confirmed dead in the Gorkha district, but he presumed "the number would go up because there are thousands who are injured."

He said his district had not received enough help from the central government, but army spokesman Jagdish Pokhrel said nearly the entire 100,000-soldier army was involved in rescue operations.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal | 0:57 The helicopter went missing near Charikot, Nepal, which was one of the areas hit hardest by the most recent earthquake. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 1 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal | 1:45 A helicopter from Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 lost contact with units on the ground Tuesday. One day earlier, on May 11, the squadron described its mission to deliver food and supplies to the rural areas of Nepal. VPC 2 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith | 1:34 A man in Nepal, who lost his son and mother-in-law in the April 25 quake, said his faith is shaken after another major earthquake shook his country. VPC 3 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL 'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera | 1:13 A magnitude 7.3 earthquake shook the ground in Nepal just weeks after another huge quake killed more than 8,000 people. Photographers traveling with a Delaware medical team for relief efforts captured the second quake on camera. 4 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rattled by second major earthquake | 1:13 For the second time in a matter of weeks, a earthquake with a magnitude greater that 7 hit Nepal. It triggered landslides and toppled buildings but most likely won't be as deadly as the April 25 earthquake that killed more than 8,000 people. Wochit 5 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake | 0:31 People gather in the streets of Nepal after a second major earthquake struck the country. It happened just weeks after the first quake killed thousands. VPC 6 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal | 0:43 A major earthquake hit Nepal on Tuesday, just weeks after an earthquake left thousands dead. Some buildings collapsed. At least 4 people are dead. (May 12) AP 7 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help | 1:28 A medical team from Delaware arrived in Nepal to help with disaster relief efforts following a massive earthquake that killed thousands. Each team member brought roughly 100 pounds of medical supplies with them. VPC 8 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal | 0:41 Helicopters from the U.S. have begun a mission to fly much-needed supplies to communities in Nepal devastated by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake responsible for the death of thousands. (May 4) AP 9 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage | 1:57 Drone footage shot on Friday showed the widespread devastation caused by last weekend's earthquake in Nepal. (May 1) AP 10 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal | 0:54 Rescuers in Kathmandu, Nepal, pulled a teenage boy alive from the rubble of a collapsed building Thursday. The boy had been trapped since the earthquake on Saturday. (April 30) AP 11 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble | 1:11 A rescue team pulled a man from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly earthquake hit Nepal. The survivor said he had given up all hope of rescue but kept banging on the rubble, which buried him. (Apr AP 12 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square | 2:07 A tourist in Bhaktapur, a short distance from Kathmandu, caught on camera the moment Saturday's devastating earthquake hit the city causing thousands of deaths and widespread damage. (April 30) AP 13 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal | 2:17 Drone footage captured by CNN shows the level of destruction in earthquake-ravaged Kathmandu, Nepal. Time 14 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest | 0:53 The number of fatalities on Mount Everest from Nepal's devastating earthquake on Saturday has climbed to 19. Injured climbers were taken out from base camp by helicopter for treatment. (April 30) AP 15 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake | 1:26 Videos taken from a drone on Monday showed the extent of the devastation in the capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake. (April 28) AP 16 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal | 1:11 Nepalese rescue helicopters continued to bring out the injured from remote areas in Nepal following last week's earthquake. AP 17 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal | 0:47 U.S. relief supplies arrived in Nepal as the country continues to deal with a devastating earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people. (April 29) AP 18 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal | 1:23 Joanne Long was 10 miles from the epicenter of Nepal's massive earthquake when it hit. Her family back in Texas has been worried sick after not hearing from her for days, but that may have just changed. VPC 19 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy | 1:23 A mountain guide trapped on Mount Everest talks about the pain of losing one of his team in the deadly avalanche triggered by the earthquake in Nepal. Jen Markham (@jenmarkham) has more. Buzz60 20 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest | 1:57 Mariusz Malkwoski was set to climb Mount Everest when a devastating earthquake hit Nepal. Malkowski, who was not injured, says he considers himself extremely lucky. (April 28) AP 21 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors | 1:32 A Chinese rescue team on Tuesday searched for survivors buried under rubble in the Gongabo district of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. (April 28) AP 22 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset | 0:50 Rescuers are still at work in Kathmandu as the sun sets on the third day after a deadly earthquake struck the country. Duration: 00:51 Video provided by AFP Newslook 23 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making | 1:07 Watch a visual explaination of the Nepal earthquake at Denver's Museum of Nature and Science. VPC 24 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage | 1:34 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake rose to 3,218 on Monday, two days after the massive quake ripped across this Himalayan nation, leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (April 27) AP 25 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal | 1:09 Surveillance footage shows the moment when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal. Video provided by AFP AFP 26 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake | 0:44 The Nepalese Army on Monday released aerial shots it filmed on Sunday of the devastation caused by the earthquake that struck over the weekend. (April 27) AP 27 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble | 0:40 Turkish rescue workers in Katmandu, Nepal pulled a man alive April 27, 2015, from the rubble of a destroyed building on Monday. The rescue comes two days a massive earthquake killed more than three-thousand. AP 28 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal | 0:47 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake soared past 3,300 Monday. Rescue workers are still struggling to reach vulnerable mountain villages two days after the initial quake. (April 27) AP 29 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors | 0:33 Powerful aftershocks rocked Nepal Sunday, panicking survivors of a quake that killed more than 2,500, as rescuers dug through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu. Video provided by AFP AFP 30 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal | 0:58 A powerful, 7.8-magnitude earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, collapsing houses and leveling centuries-old temples in the worst temblor in the Himalayan nation in over 80 years. (April 25) AP 31 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake | 1:46 Eve Girawong was climbing Mount Everest with Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering when she was killed by an avalanche. It was triggered by a massive earthquake that killed thousands of others in Nepal. VPC 32 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal | 1:14 Rescue workers in Kathmandu pulled a man from a badly damaged building on Sunday, a day after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, leaving more than 1,900 people dead. A magnitude 6.7 aftershock jolted Kathmandu Sunday morning, (April 26) AP 33 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake | 1:27 The death toll continues to rise after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. The quake destroyed homes and centuries-old temples. Neighboring countries also felt shocks and reported casualties. Wochit 34 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India | 0:43 Officials say at least 34 people have been killed and dozens more injured in India after a powerful earthquake struck neighboring Nepal on Saturday. (April 25) AP 35 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake | 0:45 Dozens of students are among those injured in northeastern India as a result of the massive earthquake that hit the region include Nepal, China and Bangladesh. Video provided by AFP AFP 36 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest | 1:11 The death toll is in the thousands following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake in Nepal. The quake also sparked an avalanche at Mount Everest. Rescue workers continue to search for missing and trapped people. Wochit 37 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts | 0:41 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. Wochit 38 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing | 1:57 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. AP 39 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake | 1:24 A day after a massive Himalayan earthquake killed more than 2,200 people, rescue efforts continued for trapped victims as panicked tourists looked to flee. (April 26) AP 40 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken | 1:13 A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing at least 1,180 people and triggering a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest. It was the worst quake to hit Nepal in decades. (April 25) AP 41 of 41 Last VideoNext Video US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal

Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal

Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith

'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera

Nepal rattled by second major earthquake

See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake

Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal

Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help

Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal

Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage

Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal

Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble

Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square

Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal

Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest

Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake

Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal

Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal

Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal

Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy

NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest

Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors

Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset

Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making

Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage

CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal

Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble

Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal

Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors

Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal

American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal

Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake

Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India

Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake

Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest

Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts

Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing

Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake

Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken

"We have 90% of the army out there working on search and rescue," he told the AP. "We are focusing our efforts on that, on saving lives."

Matt Darvas, of the aid group World Vision, said many remote villages will be accessible only by helicopter.

"Villages like this are routinely affected by landslides, and it's not uncommon for entire villages of 200, 300, up to 1,000 people to be completely buried by rock falls," Darvas told the AP.

Among those killed are 18 people who died on Mount Everest after the quake triggered an avalanche that buried part of the base camp, plus 61 people who died in India and 25 reported dead in Tibet.

A U.S. Air Force C-17 carrying search experts and 45 tons of cargo was scheduled to land in Nepal on Monday, with a second flight due on Tuesday, the Pentagon said. Two Army Special Forces teams that were in Nepal when the earthquake struck are aiding in rescue efforts.

More than a dozen countries and many charities are sending aid, but Nepal needs more, said Lila Mani Poudyal, the government's chief secretary and the rescue coordinator.

He said the recovery was also being slowed because many workers — water tanker drivers, electricity company employees and laborers needed to clear debris — "are all gone to their families and staying with them, refusing to work."

"We are appealing for tents, dry goods, blankets, mattresses, and 80 different medicines that the health department is seeking that we desperately need now," Poudyal told reporters. "We don't have the helicopters that we need or the expertise to rescue the people trapped."

The arrival of relief flights has caused major backups at Katmandu's small airport.

Four Indian air force aircraft carrying aid supplies and rescue personnel were forced to return to New Delhi on Monday because of airport congestion, Indian defense ministry spokesman Sitanshu Kar said. India planned to resend the planes later Monday night when the situation was expected to have eased.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Surveillance footage shows the moment when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal. Video provided by AFP AFP

Climbers from around the globe travel to scale Mount Everest, the world's highest peak. Among the 18 people killed in the avalanche were Tom Taplin, 61, a Denver-born filmmaker and Google engineer who was shooting a documentary about the Mount Everest base camp. He was living in Santa Monica, Calif.

Also killed were Google executive Daniel Fredinburg, who was part of a team from the firm attempting to create a Google street map of the trek to Everest Base Camp, and Marisa Eve Girawong, an emergency room physician assistant serving as a base camp doctor for the Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering expedition company.

Climber Carsten Pederson, who survived the avalanche that hit the base camp, told CNN that he witnessed people trying to flee the rush of ice and snow.

"They were trying to outrun the avalanche and you cannot," CNN quoted Pederson as saying. "So many people were hit from behind, blown off the mountain, blown into rocks, hit by debris, tents were flying off."

More than 100 aftershocks have rocked Katmandu since Saturday, including one that was magnitude 6.7, impeding the rescue work. Thousands of people have been driven to sleep out in the open having either lost their homes or fearing an already damaged structure might collapse on top of them.

Hundreds are trying to flee the terror of the city, jamming the the roads out of town.

"We are escaping," Krishna Muktari, a small grocery-store owner told Reuters. "How can you live here? I have got children, they can't be rushing out of the house all night."

The hospitals are overwhelmed by those who were injured and are running low on supplies, as well as space for the tragic number of corpses. Many areas of the city are without power or water, and food supplies are running low.

Contributing: Raquel Villanueva and Jonathan Gonzalez, KUSA-TV, Denver

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1zcGu8o
</text>