<url>
http://www.lohud.com/story/news/local/2015/04/27/nepal-earthquake-locals-grieve/26471621/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Natives of Nepal grieve for homeland after quake
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Krishna Lohani of Valhalla is from the village of Nuwakot, Nepal, which was severely damaged by the earthquake in Kathmandu, 75 miles away. (Video by Peter Carr/The Journal News)

"Nepal is totally isolated," Lamar Rangbar said. "We're preparing ourselves for the aftermath."

Buy Photo Krishna Lohani and his father-in-law Chinta Mani Adhikariat his Valhalla home on Monday. He is from the village of Nuwakot, Nepal, which was severely damaged by the earthquake in Kathmandu, 75 miles away. (Photo: Peter Carr/The Journal News)Buy Photo

Krishna Lohani feels heartache for his homeland after an earthquake devastated Nepal, killing thousands and destroying the nation's infrastructure.

Lohani, 43, a Valhalla resident raised in the Nepalese village of Nuwakot, about 75 miles north of Kathmandu, said several hundred of the more than 3,000 people in his village died.

"One hundred percent of the houses are gone," Lohani said Monday. "My family, fortunately, are OK. We lost many neighbors."

Lohani estimated about 100 Nepalis from 20 families live in the Valhalla and White Plains area. He considered flying to Nepal to try to help, but decided it was better to donate the money he'd spend on airfare.

"l'd rather give help for the village, for the people," he said.

Lohani said he talked with a nephew in Kathmandu on Saturday, but then the electricity went out. He said it's important to pray, send emails, and give the people there psychological support.

There are few Hindu temples in Rockland and Westchester counties; many Nepalese living in Westchester worship at Hindu Manir in Wilton, Conn.

Swami Balgopal said 29 temple families had lost all their relatives. People can't fly home to help, he said, because it's hard to get a flight.

"You can't get to the suburbs," he said. "They'll have to wait until the roads are reopened."

Balgopal said he got a call Monday morning about one village. The local temple was damaged, and "out of 50 houses, 39 had collapsed."

The Connecticut temple has held several prayer services since the devastating quake struck. More were planned Monday, Tuesday and Saturday. The temple has been providing candles and food to its families for their personal prayers as well.

"Whatever the need, we provide it," Balgopal said.

Balgopal was born on Mount Everest in Nepal, but grew up in India. He said the Nepalese community has been heartened by the help rendered by China and India, and pledges of money from Canada and the U.S. He suggested that anyone wanting to help donate to the Nepalese Embassy in Washington, D.C.

Lamar Rangbar of Poughkeepsie said that while the death toll is now reported at about 4,000 people, it's likely more devastating.

"Many people already have perished," Rangbar said. "We're petrified at what's happening. Time is of the essence. The aftermath is going to be worse. Houses are unstable. The hospitals are overflowing with people in the streets. We can only get supplies to the people now through air-drops."

Rangbar, whose western name is Adam Friedensohn, and his Nepalese wife are part of the Bodhivastu Foundation in Poughkeepsie, which is partnering with the Himalayan Light Foundation to coordinate relief efforts. Updates on Nepal and donation options through the organization can be found at www.thegreatawakening.org.

He said he has heard from some members of his wife's family and members of the Bodhivastu Foundation in Nepal.

"Nepal is totally isolated," Rangbar said. "We're preparing ourselves for the aftermath."

Tashi Dolma of Valley Cottage runs the Tibetan Home of Hope, an orphanage that brings healthcare, education and shelter to Tibetan children. He said the earthquake hit areas of Tibet bordering Nepal, but the results have not been as devastating.

He said he's learned some Nepalese friends are alive through other friends in India.

"They've lost loved ones and property," he said.

"This is a great tragedy. Nepal is a small country and definitely needs outside help."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Help Nepal

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's office released this list of New York-affiliated charities are assisting in relief efforts in Nepal:

•American Jewish World Service – donate here.

•American Nepal Medical Foundation – donate here.

•AmeriCares – donate here.

•CARE – donate here.

•Catholic Relief Services – donate here.

•Direct Relief – donate here.

•GlobalGiving – donate here.

•Himalyan Heath Care – donate here.

•International Relief Teams – donate here.

•Joint Distribution Committee – donate here.

•Operation USA – donate here.

•Save the Children – donate here.

•Seva Foundation – donate here.

•United States Fund for UNICEF – donate here.

•World Help – donate here.

Read or Share this story: http://lohud.us/1Gz4rGB
</text>