<url>
http://www.ctvnews.ca/canada/missing-toronto-man-found-in-nepal-1.2346395
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Canadians continue to struggle to reach loved ones in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
As help poured into Nepal on Monday, Canadians back home continued to worry about the safety of friends and family, just days after the country was struck by a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Though power was restored in the capital of Kathmandu, communication within the country remains difficult.

Halifax native Rob Chitraker struggled to get a hold of his 72-year-old mother on Monday, after a 5.2-magnitude aftershock peppered an area near her home.

"I'm a very composed man usually, but this is really taking a toll," Chitraker said.

Despite repeated efforts, the Halifax native was unable to contact his mother.

"I'm trying to call all different networks to see if I can get through."

He has also been combing the Internet and reaching out to government officials.

Adding to his worries is the fact that his wife, who was supposed to land in Kathmandu on Monday, had her flight diverted to India and hasn't been able to enter the country.

In Montreal, Stephanie Gauthier and Antoine Giasson are trying to stay upbeat despite the fact that they haven’t heard from their son Frederick in three weeks.

"I don't want to be overwhelmed with emotion, I want to stay cool and be as rational as possible," Giasson said.

Frederick had embarked on trek around Mount Everest, where at least 18 climbers were killed in an avalanche triggered by the quake.

Gauthier and Giasson remain hopeful that they'll hear from their son soon.

"He's very resourceful, and he is not timid, so I'm sure if he sees someone with a phone, he's going to (call) … and give us some news," said Gauthier.

And for some the painful wait and frantic search is over.

The family of Ottawa native Faye Kennedy, 32, finally received a one-line email on Monday.

"I'm lucky to be OK," Kennedy said in the email.

The 32-year-old had been hiking in Langtang Valley, along Nepal's northern border with Tibet, when the earthquake hit.

Kennedy was injured and since been airlifted to Kathmandu.

"We don't know what is wrong with her, or (if) her injuries will even permit her to fly (home) at this point," Justin Piché, Kennedy’s brother-in-law, said.

The mother of 22-year-old North York native Casey Blustein was also grateful to finally hear from their son on Monday.

"We are thrilled, our prayers are answered," Mindy Kadonoff told CTV News Channel on Monday.

"Best day of our life," she said through tears.

CTV Toronto's Zuraidah Alman was at the family's home on Monday morning when Kadonoff was able to speak to her son for the first time since the quake.

"I can't tell you how happy I am to hear your voice," Kadonoff said.

"I'm happy to be hearing your voice, too," Blustein said over the phone.

Blustein had last spoken to his family on Friday, the day before the earthquake hit the area where he was travelling.

When Blustein spoke to his family, he was in a hiking region in Besisahar, located in the Lamjung district which was the epicentre of the quake. Family members were worried he was still in the area when the quake hit on Saturday.

On Monday, his mother learned that Blustein had been staying at a hostel in Manang, approximately 70 kilometres north of Lamjung, at the time of the quake.

He told his mother he was in a "very safe area," but wasn't able to access the Internet or make phone calls over the weekend.

Blustein's stop in Nepal was part of a year-long trip he was taking around the world. He left Toronto in August and was travelling with someone who was an experienced trekker.

Blustein was planning to leave Nepal in early May, but has changed his plans and will now stay behind to help with relief efforts.

"We're just so happy that he's safe," Kadonoff said.

Widespread destruction

Halifax disc jockey JR Loeb, who is in Nepal, also managed to escape harm. Speaking by phone, Loeb told CTV’s Power Play Monday that he was at a restaurant an hour’s drive from Kathmandu when the quake hit.

“All of a sudden, we heard this really loud rumble,” Loeb said. “I looked across at one of the waiters and I saw crazy fear in his eyes.”

Loeb said the following moments were chaotic as everyone in the restaurant “bolted outside, screaming.”

When he got back to Kathmandu, Loeb said the main roads were closed, so he and his companions set out on foot.

“We had to walk for three and a half hours, through all of Kathmandu, and we saw all of the destruction, it’s terrible,” he said.

Loeb, who is staying at a friend’s compound, said to his knowledge, the Canadian consulate is holding “as many Canadians as they can, given their supplies.”

“The Australian and U.K. embassies are trying to help as best they can but it’s pretty much a free-for-all out here right now,” Loeb said, adding he expects to stay put for another three to four days at least.

In terms of what aid is most needed, Loeb said water shortages and sanitation are currently big problems on the ground, and medication is needed.

Foreign Affairs said there are 462 Canadians registered as being in Nepal, but cautioned that's only an estimate because registration is voluntary.

With files from Genevieve Beauchemin, CTV Atlantic, CTV Montreal, CTV Ottawa and CTV Toronto
</text>