<url>
http://www.theargus.co.uk/news/12914572.display/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Young traveller survives earthquake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
THE boyfriend of a woman feared killed in the Nepal earthquake has spoken of his “massive relief” at discovering she is alive and well.

Tara Bradshaw from Brighton had been planning to go to a festival in Kathmandu when the 7.8 magnitude quake struck.

More than 2,100 people were killed and homes and buildings destroyed following Saturday’s earthquake and an aftershock yesterday morning.

The death toll is expected to continue to rise over the next few days.

The earthquake sent tremors through the Kathmandu Valley and the nearby city of Pokhara.

The majority of fatalities were reported in Nepal, with deaths also being confirmed in India, Tibet, Bangladesh and the Nepal-China border.

The UK has deployed an eight-strong team to provide urgent humanitarian support for those affected by the disaster.

Experts in search and rescue travelled to Nepal yesterday and will begin work assessing the scale of damage, and helping local authorities to direct the response.

Ms Bradshaw, 24, of Queen’s Park Road, had been travelling in India and Nepal since January.

Her boyfriend Alex Parry, 25, said: “Obviously I am just so massively relieved. I’m over the moon.

“I have not managed to speak to her myself yet but she called her mum to say she was fine.

“There was only time for a very quick call as it was her friend’s phone and the battery was going but at least we know she is OK.

“I just really feel so devastated for all those who have died and for those who are still worrying and waiting for news.

“The destruction that has also been caused to all those homes and the beautiful buildings and monuments is just awful.”

Ms Bradshaw, who is planning to study for a masters degree, was due home in the next few months but Mr Parry is hoping she will now return sooner.

Reports over the weekend said fears had also been raised for Peter Roddis, 26, from Brighton, but he is also believed to be safe and well.

Mr Roddis, an engineer, hit the headlines last October when he was named in national newspapers as being among dozens of people who had gone missing and were presumed dead in severe Himalayan storms.

However he emailed The Argus to say he was still alive and fine.

Mr Roddis had contacted his girlfriend Lisa Hallett a few days earlier to say he was going to head out on the Annapurna Trail.

When the storm hit his family and friends were worried he had been caught up in it but it later emerged he had not been travelling on that day.

A team of 14 volunteer rescuers from UK charity Search and Rescue Assistance in Disasters flew out to Kathmandu yesterday, taking with them 1.5 tonnes of specialist equipment to help them rescue people in collapsed buildings.

When the news of the earthquake in Nepal broke Tara Bradshaw’s family and friends made frantic attempts to track her down.

Her boyfriend Alex Parry had spoken to her three days before the devastating earthquake hit Nepal, when she was in Kathmandu for a festival.

Mr Parry said: “Everyone was really worried and just trying every way they could to get hold of her.

“It was just a massive relief when I heard that she had spoken to her mum.

“She has always been very resilient. I think she would have been scared but as long as she was not hurt, she would have done everything she could to help.

“She was due home in a few months anyway but I’m hoping she will make it sooner now. I’m just looking forward to seeing her again.”

Miss Bradshaw has always had a love of travelling and spent long periods of time abroad in the past.

This January was no different as she and her boyfriend Alex Parry set off for India.

Mr Parry, 25, from Brighton, was only planning to stay for a month as he needed to get back to his job as a web developer.

However, Ms Bradshaw intended to stay for longer, to do some volunteering in India and spend time travelling around Nepal.

The University of Brighton graduate is planning to start a master’s degree later this year but wanted to spread her wings for a bit first.

Ms Bradshaw, 24, is one of scores of Britons caught up in the earthquake and the Foreign Office is advising them to stay in a safe place and follow guidance given by local authorities.

It has also set up a helpline for people worried about loved ones who may have been in the area at the time.

Nepalese authorities confirmed yesterday afternoon that the number of people who have died had risen to more than 2,100.

Rescue efforts in the country are continuing as volunteers and experts from around the world rushed to help in the wake of the death and destruction caused by the 7.8 magnitude quake.

It struck just before noon on Saturday, sending tremors through the Kathmandu Valley and the nearby city of Pokhara.

Swathes of the oldest neighbourhoods of Kathmandu have been destroyed and it was strong enough to be felt across parts of India, Bangladesh, China’s region of Tibet and Pakistan.

About an hour after the initial quake, a magnitude 6.6 aftershock hit and smaller aftershocks could be felt through the region for hours.

A magnitude 6.7 aftershock struck yesterday morning, adding to the massive task rescue workers are now faced with.

Mountaineering guide Ang Tshering said an avalanche swept the face of Mount Everest after the earthquake and government officials said at least 17 people were dead and 61 injured.

Several Britons were among those stranded on the world’s highest peak, with access to its base camp cut off.

Outside of the oldest neighbourhoods, many in Kathmandu were surprised by how few modern structures – the city is largely a collection of small, poorly constructed brick apartment buildings–- collapsed in the quake.

While aid workers cautioned that many buildings could have sustained serious structural damage, it was also clear that the death toll would have been far higher had more buildings caved in.

The aid group World Vision said in a statement that remote mountain communities, including in Gorkha, were totally unprepared for the level of destruction caused by the earthquake.

Villages near the epicentre “are literally perched on the sides of large mountain faces and are made from simple stone and rock construction”.

Many of these villages are only accessible by 4x4 and then foot, with some villages hours and even entire days’ walks away from main roads.

The group’s local staff member Matt Darvas said he has heard many of the villages may have been completely buried by rock falls.

As day broke yesterday, rescuers aided by international teams set out to dig through rubble of buildings – concrete slabs, bricks, iron beams, wood – to look for survivors.

Oxfam is also lending its support to the rescue effort with teams in Nepal already assessing the humanitarian need and a team of technical experts preparing to fly from the UK with supplies to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food supplies.

Christian Aid has made an initial £50,000 available to help victims and the British Red Cross has launched an emergency appeal.

Tanya Barron, chief executive of children’s charity Plan International UK, is currently in Hetauda , about a three-hour drive from Kathmandu.

She said: “Two lorries with vital aid including blankets are arriving this afternoon from our office in Birgunj at the Indian border for our staff to start distributing to those most in need.”

Tents are also being bought for some of the many people who have been forced to camp outside their homes.

Ms Barron said: “While superficially calm, everyone is staying outside, including children of all ages looking extremely worried as it is unclear if there will be another shock. The nights here in the mountainous area are cold and people are not set up to sleep outside, especially with very young children, including infants. Plan’s aid will be a first outreach which at least allows people not to freeze.”

Charity CARE’s emergency specialists from across the world are also on their way as are expert volunteer rescuers from Serve On IRT.

The Foreign office is telling British nationals who require consular assistance to call +44 (0) 207 008 0000 or text NEPAL to +447860 010026.
</text>