<url>
http://www.umcmission.org/learn-about-us/news-and-stories/2015/april/0427kpprayerfornepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Missionary Katherine Parker Requests Prayer for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Mission Musings

Missionary Katherine Parker Requests Prayer for Nepal

Katherine Parker, missionary with Global Ministries who serves as part of the Health Team of the United Mission to Nepal, shares an update on the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake, April 25. Parker makes specific prayer requests and expresses gratitude for the outpouring of concern for the people of Nepal.

April 26, 2015

12:30 a.m.

Yesterday in Nepal we experienced a 45+ second 7.8 magnitude earthquake with an epicenter half way between Pokhara and Kathmandu. I am safe and well in Pokhara at a gathering with other UMN (United Mission to Nepal) missionaries.

There has been minimal damage here but we continue to feel the aftershocks. All UMN staff have been accounted for and are well. UMN core response team is attempting to return to Kathmandu but I will stay here until at least Monday and maybe longer. Road conditions are not good.

I've been in touch with some friends in Kathmandu. Most slept outside last night. Some have experienced injury (a grandmother with a broken leg) and destruction of their homes. Panic and anxiety is being experienced by many in the city. There are older, taller and denser buildings there and thus more destruction, but I'm not sure of the full extent of situation. We are also concerned for our friends in the rural regions outside of the Kathmandu valley where there are more un-mortared stone and brick buildings. Reports of damage and loss of life are coming in from our partners in Dhading, but poor roads are hampering the initial connection.

Thank you for the outpouring of concern for the people of Nepal and your prayers in this unfolding situation.

Prayer Requests

There is anxiety that this event will trigger another quake on one of Nepal’s other two fault lines and that more aftershocks will further destabilize buildings. Please pray Psalm 46 for the assurance of God's continued presence and protection.

Please pray for those who have lost loved ones and those who have lost their shelter either temporarily or permanently. Please pray for those sleeping outside that the weather will hold stable and it won't rain.

Water shortages are always a problem in Kathmandu, so please pray that the water supply will be sufficient and uncontaminated (I've heard reports of "rust colored" water). Please pray that the temporary outdoor living will not lead to a cholera outbreak.

Please pray for our response team traveling to Kathmandu and for UMN staff as we implement our emergency response plan to help those in need.

Please pray for the teenage children of several missionary colleagues who are in Kathmandu and separated from the rest of their family here in Pokhara and for other families who are separated from loves ones.

Please pray for calm and release from fear as the aftershocks continue.

Some Specific Location Updates

The road from Pokhora to Kathmandu is reported as damaged but open. INF (International Nepal Fellowship) has offered their land rover for key UMN staff to try and return to Kathmandu today.

UMN has been in touch with the hospital in Lamjung, which is not as badly damaged as initial reports have indicated. The missionary doctor and family there are anticipating an influx of people as people begin to move again. Our UMN doctors from Tansen have been made available to this hospital as well the western regional hospital.

Our main response as UMN will focus on Dhading; plans for this are in the initial stages.

Your sister in service for Christ,

Katherine

Gifts to support UMCOR’s response to the earthquake in Nepal and other disasters can be made online.
</text>