<url>
http://www.vancouversun.com/news/nepalese+community+frantically+seeking+news+family/11004741/story.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
B.C.'s Nepalese community frantically seeking news of family
</headline>

<text>
VANCOUVER — Aneeta Gauchan was on Skype with her two-year-old daughter and the rest of her family in Kathmandu when the massive earthquake hit.

She heard her sister-in-law yelling that there was an earthquake, and then the connection was lost. When she made contact again, the family told her they were running to safety in an open space nearby.

"It was very terrifying and it's still terrifying," said Gauchan, a PhD student in UBC's forestry program.

"Although I am far away, I feel as if I had witnessed everything."

The magnitude 7.8 quake and several aftershocks have killed more than 2,500 people, but Gauchan's loved ones are all safe in a relative's one-storey home. Still, it's hard for her to be on the other side of the world while her family is in danger.

"(My daughter) has been crying a lot because there was a lot of aftershocks," she said. "It's sad. I'm far away. I'm completely helpless."

She spent the weekend checking in with other Nepalese students at the University of B.C. and they're planning a fundraising drive to help with the relief efforts back home.

About 2,000 people of Nepalese descent live in the province, according to Anil Pradhan, president of the Nepalese Cultural Society of B.C., and many were having difficulty reaching loved ones following the deadly tremors.

"It is so devastating. The number of people who died, and also the number of buildings destroyed. We lost so many historical monuments that date from the 16th century," he said.

His sister lives in Kathmandu and survived the disaster. But many families are bracing for the worst.

"We still don't know how many people are in the rubble. The worst part right now, is we just don't know," Pradhan said.

UBC economist Ratna Shrestha heard the news just minutes after the quake struck, and immediately tried to get in touch with his family, most of whom live in a village on the outskirts of Kathmandu, about 15 kilometres from the epicentre.

His brother was the first to pick up.

"He told me that there was a lot of clouds, sort of like a thunderstorm coming from perhaps the collapse of buildings in Kathmandu, in the old areas. They were really frightened," Shrestha said.

As far as he knows, everyone in his family is safe. They've been camping in an open space, away from any buildings that may collapse, and while Shrestha has been unable to connect with them by phone since Saturday, a nephew is posting regular updates to Facebook.

Still, he predicts a long and painful recovery for Nepal.

"I think it's going to be very, very difficult. So many people are homeless I believe, especially those having homes in the downtown Kathmandu area," he said.

Even in the best of times, the water supply in the capital city is unreliable, and the country's government is still recovering from a decade-long civil war between Maoist rebels and state forces.

"The government is not stable. They don't have the logistic capacity to cope with this magnitude of a natural disaster," Shrestha said.
</text>