<url>
http://www.dailystar.co.uk/news/latest-news/438799/70-Brits-feared-dead-race-against-time-find-survivors-Nepal-earthquake-rubble-Everest
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
70 Brits feared dead: Race against time to find survivors in Nepal earthquake rubble
</headline>

<text>
AT LEAST 70 Brits were feared dead after a massive earthquake devastated Nepal...and now rescuers face a race against time to find survivors.

Gurkha soldiers were helping with the rescue mission in their homeland but dozens of UK travellers were missing last night. Reports suggest more than 65 Brits are still missing today. Police in Nepal say a total of close to 4,000 people have died and 6,538 are injured. And The Queen has today said she was was "shocked to hear of the appalling loss of life and injuries" caused by the earthquake, adding that her "thoughts and prayers are with the victims". She added: "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this disaster and with those bereaved and affected. "Prince Philip joins me in extending our deepest sympathy to you and the Nepali people. The thoughts of everyone in the United Kingdom are with the families of all those caught up in this terrible event."

A British couple on their honeymoon described the full horror of the catastrophe. Alex Schneider and Sam Chappatte told how they “ran for their lives” as an avalanche hurtled towards them on Everest. They wrote on their blog: “We staggered out (of the tent) to see an avalanche coming straight at us. “A blast of wind knocked us down but we were able to get up and run to shelter behind some tents and anchor ourselves with our axes. “We focused on keeping an air hole so we could breathe.” Some 10,000 bodies are thought to be lying under rubble after the 7.8-magnitude quake struck on Saturday. A six-month pregnant woman was one of the many Brit tourists trapped in Nepal. Eleanor Walker-Corriette, 35, from Nottingham, is 25-weeks pregnant with her first child, a boy. Mum Marylin, 62, said yesterday: “We were so worried when we found out.

“Obviously our main concern is for the baby, as it’s her first.” Brits Jay Devine and Anthony White were among those listed as missing on Google Person Finder, which allows people to search for information on relatives in Nepal. Darren Smith, 27, from Edinburgh, is missing with girlfriend Fiona Lamont. Also missing are Dr Rachel McDonald, from Truro, Cornwall, Helen Pounder, from Bishop Auckland, Durham, and Ross Smith, from Scotland. Fears are growing for climber Samuel Bond, 28, from Doynton, Glos, backpacker Sam Stalker, Welsh-born climber Ade Summers, teenager Archie Rainey, from Glasgow, and pensioner Martin Oppenheim, from Berks. Anna Buchanan, 18, and Alex White, 34, both from London, have not been accounted for. And Lee Tuddenham, and Katherine Trevellion, are out of contact after the disaster. Some survivors were last night said to be stranded 20,000ft up Mount Everest, including several Brits. Climbers said there were “many” dead.

James Grieve, a British climber stranded on Mount Everest following earthquake-triggered avalanches, says there is a "race against time" for those awaiting rescue. He said that the rescue effort was being hampered by storms and supplies would only last a few more days. The 52-year-old told The Sun from Camp One: "Everyone is apprehensive about what's happening and what will happen in the next 24 hours. We have a few days of food and drink left. Our tents have all been lost and we have around 18 dead bodies at base camp. "Rescue teams are struggling to get us help due to the weather and the next few days' forecasts are not great. There is a lot of confusion in the cap and there are still about 120 of us here waiting to be rescued. "We are in a race against time to get off the mountain." He estimated up to 50 people had been killed. The paper said he was in a party with fellow British climbers Alex Staniforth, 19, of Chester, expedition leader Daniel Mazur, from Bristol and Sam and Alex Chappatte, from London. On Twitter yesterday, Mr Staniforth's UK-based support team revealed the difficulty caused by the weather. They said: "Alex has just texted via sat phone. They will spend another night at C1. Weather has drawn in making it too difficult to fly choppers." After the 6.7-magnitude aftershock, Mr Mazur tweeted: "Aftershock @ 1pm! Horrible here in camp 1. Avalanches on 3 sides. C1 a tiny island. We worry about icefall team below.. Alive?" He later said: "Icefall scouts back w/ news: GOOD: route is there. BAD: it sustained damage. V BAD: icefall Sherpas bc gone; ran away to Namche!"

“We ran outside and the whole street was swaying” Tom Elphinstone Tom Elphinstone, from Battersea, south London and his girlfriend Zara Carey, both 26, had been hiking the Annapurna circuit and were in Tansen in western Nepal when the earthquake hit. Tom said: “We ran outside and the whole street was swaying.” Nepal was rocked by a huge 6.7-magnitude aftershock yesterday, plunging the region into further chaos. More avalanches were reported near Everest, leaving mountaineers cut off from base camp. Expedition leader Daniel Mazur, from Bristol, said the massive movements had caused “loose ice wind blasts destroying (the) heart of (the) base camp”. The UK yesterday pledged £5million towards the relief effort as panicked families back home played an agonising waiting game for information. Eight humanitarian experts from Britain have also been sent to help the rescue mission.

Gurkha soldiers based in Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital, are already helping with the recovery effort. And a Cobra meeting between Government chiefs was last night held as they discussed whether to send more soldiers to aid the mission. In villages and cities rescuers have warned that more bodies are being found under rubble and dragged out of crumpled homes every hour. Those who were buried alive in the disaster have been laid in the street beneath white sheets. Relatives have prepared their bodies to be burned on mass funeral pyres. The quake struck between Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara.

Extraordinary video footage shot from an overhead helicopter shows the extent of the devastation. A blanket of toppled buildings and rubble cover a huge part of the region.

Britain's Got Talent star Amanda Holden has revealed that her sister Debbie was trapped on Mount Everest after the earthquake in Nepal – and that altitude sickness may have saved her life. Holden, who was interviewing search and rescue experts on ITV's This Morning, said: "My sister (Debbie) is climbing Mount Everest and very luckily she is at a place that is the last camp before you get to Base Camp 1 on the south side, and there was only four of them left at that camp because my sister was suffering so badly from altitude sickness she didn't walk up to Base Camp - which actually, potentially, might have saved her life." She said her sister had been able to send a text message to her family from a friend's phone to say she was safe. She said: "I think they rushed out when the earthquake came and rushed back in because they were affected by an avalanche partly at the camp they were in ... and I think they were going to make their way down this morning." Holden said there was a possibility that her sister had been airlifted from the mountain this morning or could even have walked back down.

German climber Jost Kobusch caught the moment his party was engulfed by the avalanche at Mount Everest base camp. They hear the rumble of the deadly wall of snow, ice and mist just moments before they managed to dive into tents for cover. He wrote: "The ground was shaking from the earthquake and as soon as we saw people running we were running ourselves to save our lives." The 31-year-old posted the video on YouTube and it has been viewed more than 2.6million times in a little over 12 hours. The RAF is expected to deliver much-needed supplies and reinforcements today. Medics and experts from the UK flew out last night. The Department for International Development (DFID) also announced 5 million of humanitarian aid for Nepal. It deployed a team of more than 60 search and rescue responders and medical experts as part of a cross-government surge to support the relief effort. A DFID-chartered flight was due to leave the UK for Kathmandu last night, carrying seven international search and rescue crews, four search and rescue dogs, a medical support team and a hazardous materials specialist.

Survivor Alex Staniforth said he was "emotionally trashed" after being rescued from his ascent of Mount Everest. The 19-year-old was at Camp 1 on the world's higest peak when the devastating quake hit. He was airlifted back to base camp and is now waiting to be transferred to Khatmandu so he can return to the UK to be reunited with family and friends. Nepal's mountaineering department said at least 18 people had been killed on the mountain and 61 injured in the avalanche, while an unknown number were still missing. In a statement, Mr Staniforth's support team said today: "Alex was airlifted from Camp 1 back to Base Camp earlier this morning. "His sleeping tent was destroyed by the avalanche and he feels extremely lucky to be alive. "Alex is completely devastated at the tragic loss of lives of so many people, many whom he classed as friends both around Everest Base Camp and in the region. "We are hoping that he can be airlifted to Kathmandu over the next 24 hours for his safe passage home to his family and friends." Earlier a tweet from his team in the UK said: "From Alex: "Evacuated to base camp. Emotionally trashed and all gear swept away. Very lucky to be alive, please let everyone know."

Another missing Brit is 18-year-old Michael Walker. His dad James, a professional photographer, has issued a plea to help trace his son, who was trekking with a local guide when the earthquake struck. Michael, a former headboy and talented hockey player from Exeter, Devon, left Kathmandu for Kanchenjunga in April 13. Dad James said: ""We are now seeking any information from people returning from this remote region. "He would have started trekking on the 15th and anticipated the route taking 15 plus days during which he would be out of all contact. "Mike is trekking with a guide and Karan (an Indian National). "Michael is a very friendly guy. He was head boy at Exeter School and no-one would have a bad word to say about him. "He was an incredible sportsman and brilliant at hockey and an all-round good guy. We just all desperately hope he is ok."

A team of volunteers from the British charity Search and Rescue in Disasters (SARAID) flew out to assist the efforts in Nepal. They spent yesterday checking their equipment at Heathrow before making the journey.

Today the Foreign Office (FO) has advised Brits against all but essential travel to Nepal. The FO said: "If you are in a safe place, you should stay where you are until it is safe to leave. You should follow any advice provided by the local authorities. If you can leave Nepal safely then we advise that you should do so. "If you are a British national currently in Nepal and wish to inform the FO of your whereabouts you should contact us by completing the online form, emailing help@fco.gov.uk or calling us on +44 20 7008 0000, and texting NEPAL to +447860010026." UK travel organisation Abta is asking those due to travel to Nepal to contact their holiday company to make alternative arrangements.
</text>