<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-27/word-begins-to-trickle-through-about-safe-victorians/6424102
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Word begins to trickle through about Victorians
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Word begins to trickle through about Victorians

Updated

The devastation in Nepal has made it difficult for family members to stay in touch with loved ones caught up in the weekend's earthquake, but a number of Victorians have managed to get through.

However, dozens more from the state are still registered as missing by the Red Cross.

Nikki Chamberlain's mother Sue was on a 16-day Mount Everest base camp trek with a number of other Australians.

On Sunday Nikki Chamberlain told the ABC it was tough waiting to find out if the 69-year-old was safe, but she has since received some good news.

"I found out it about it after initially friends were sending me messages saying 'heard there was an earthquake in Nepal, hope your mum's OK' and my initial reaction was that she was fine,' Ms Chamberlain said.

"Then more messages came and I saw the news and saw just how serious it was and the numbers [of dead] were going up and up.

"I was stressed and anxious and got onto the phone to Dad and the rest of the people Mum is trekking with over there."

Ms Chamberlain said she had not spoken directly to her mother, but has been told she was safe.

"Some people in the group have family throughout the world. One of their sons got a phone call and they were in New York and that's filtered back to Australia," she said.

"I've been able to tell the families of fellow trekkers that we've had some good news, we've made contact, there's been word they're safe.

"They're coming down the mountain now and we should be able to get contact with them [soon]."

Daylesford family of four appear to be safe

Francis and Jen Comber and their children Rani and Neve, from Daylesford in Victoria's south-west, were trekking in the Tsum Valley, north-west of Kathmandu, when the earthquake struck.

The brother of Ms Comber said he received a phone call with some positive news this morning.

"We've had contact with the trekking company and they seem to be trying to communicate that they had been located," Jeff Brownscombe told 774 ABC Melbourne.

"It's unconfirmed at this stage, it was very broken and limited conversation.

"We're hopeful that's what they were trying to communicate, but we're not out of the woods yet.

"They're trekking in an isolated region of Nepal which is in the region of the epicentre of the earthquake.

"They told us they'd be out of contact with us for more than three weeks."

The Comber family left Australia in June last year to go on a world adventure.

Mr Brownscombe described them as a loving and strong family who enjoyed travel, meeting new people and learning about different cultures.

He said his sister had warned they would be trekking for three weeks and would not be in contact until early May.

He said it has been a nervous wait as he waited for word of the family.

"Thinking through all the possibilities and what could have taken place and it's obviously been very distressing for the families," he said.

Mr Comber said the devastation in the region was extraordinary.

"I've trekked in Nepal myself, it's not my sister's first time there. She's spent a fair amount of time there before," he said.

"They're a beautiful people, such a beautiful country, I really feel for them."

Topics: earthquake, vic

First posted
</text>