<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/worldtoday/content/2015/s4224421.htm
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Aftershocks continue to jolt survivors as aid trickles in
</headline>

<text>
Sarah Farnsworth reported this story on Monday, April 27, 2015 12:05:00

ELEANOR HALL: In Nepal, aftershocks from the massive earthquake are continuing to jolt the country as the official death toll climbs to 2,500 people.



Thousands of Nepalese are now in desperate need of shelter and terrified people who've just been rescued from collapsed villages are telling harrowing stories that suggest the number of dead from this disaster could rise dramatically.



Shaken residents are huddling in rubble strewn streets and queuing for food and water, overcrowded hospitals are struggling to treat thousands of injured survivors, and high in the Himalayas, hundreds of foreign and Nepalese climbers remain trapped, at the height of the tourist season.



Australians are among them but so far there are no confirmed reports of any Australian deaths.



Sarah Farnsworth begins our coverage.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: For a second night, thousands of people have been sleeping on the streets as tent cities spring up among the rubble



Aftershocks continue to rock Kathmandu and tourist mecca of Pokhara.



Speaking to Al Jazeera, a French tourist says people are scared.



FRENCH TOURIST (translated): We ran into the hotel courtyard to avoid being crushed and when we came back to the square we saw that everything was damaged.



We started helping people, trying to move bodies out of the debris and so yesterday evening we slept here because we were afraid of aftershocks.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: More than 2,000 people are believed dead, but that number is expected to rise as disaster response teams spread out from the capital.



Food and water is becoming scarce.



The scale of the devastation in the cities is all too clear, but the remote areas remain cut off.



Matt Darvas from World Vision Australia is trying to get to Gorkha - the worst hit area outside Kathmandu.



He says those injured are being flown to the state-run hospitals.



MATT DARVAS: Well, I spoke to one man, he was in one of the first helicopters to arrive from one of the outer lying villages.



His village has 1,100 households; he estimates 90 per cent of those were completely destroyed.



He came in with a young girl, 9 years old.



Her house fell on her at the time of the earthquake.



She had a dislocated hip and her brother had had to pull her out of the rubble to get to safety.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: Access to remote parts of Nepal is precarious at the best of times.



Now with bad weather and roads destroyed, it's virtually impossible.



Tanya Barron who heads up the children's aid charity, Plan International, spoke to the BBC.



TANYA BARRON: We have been travelling through quite remote villages and areas.



We were moving along today and suddenly the road was shaking, we could see buildings shaking, we could see cars parked actually in a big four wheel drive vehicles sort of moving across the road.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: Vision has emerged from Mount Everest base camp of the massive avalanche that sent trekkers running for cover.



(Sounds from video of Mount Everest avalanche)



A collapsing white wall of snow rains down.



Within a matter of seconds the area is covered.



(Sounds from video of Mount Everest avalanche)



There are hundreds of Australian's in Nepal.



The Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says officials have confirmed the safety of 830 and are trying to race others.



JULIE BISHOP: We are trying to confirm the numbers of Australians in the country and we will try and make contact with all of them.



We have deployed a crisis response team to Nepal.



That team will assist in establishing the welfare of Australians unaccounted for.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: With phone lines out of action, families are relying social media to find out if their relatives are safe.



Slowly good news is trickling through.



Nikki Chamberlain found out her mother had survived the avalanche via a message from New York.



NIKKI CHAMBERLAIN: And people in the group have family all throughout the world.



One of their sons got a phone call when they were in New York and then that's filtered all the way back to Australia and I've been able to tell the families of the fellow trekkers.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: Last night, Len Ford found out his 20-year-old daughter was safe, ending a stressful 24 hours for his family.



LEN FORD: We still don't really know where she is.



We don't know the location of where she is and she's still got to be rescued.



She's out, camping out. Apparently the building was demolished she was in.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: The anxious wait for news continues for many in the Nepalese community across Australia, but some have already heard the worst.



Raju Shakya is from the Victorian Nepalese Association.



RAJU SHAKYA: You know, lots of people lost their loved ones, suffered a huge loss.



They are very shaken and they need support as well.



SARAH FARNSWORTH: As Nepal takes stoke of the devastation, the US, Australia, Britain, Europe, Russia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and China are all sending aid and specialist teams to help.



ELEANOR HALL: Sarah Farnsworth reporting.
</text>