<url>
http://www.afternoondc.in/city-news/aftershocks-add-to-devastation-death-toll-mounts-over-6000-injured/article_137326
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Aftershocks add to devastation; Death toll mounts, over 6,000 injured
</headline>

<text>
Rescuers race against time, over 2,400 killed in Nepal earthquake

KATHMANDU: Racing against time, rescuers on Sunday waded through tonnes of rubble of flattened homes and buildings in Nepal to look for survivors of the earthquake that has killed over 2,400 people, including five Indians, and left more than 6,000 others injured.



Fresh powerful aftershocks yesterday triggered panic among the stricken people and caused avalanches on Mt Everest which had yesterday taken a toll of 22 lives.



A strong 6.7-magnitude aftershock followed by another measuring 6.5 on the Richter Scale, sent people scrambling for open spaces, reports PTI.



The 7.9-magnitude temblor on Saturday left a trail of devastation and suffering, with people spending the cold night in the open because of fears of fresh quake.



According to the latest figures available with the Kathmandu-based National Emergency Operation Centre, the death toll in Nepal stood at 2,430 with over 6,000 people injured.



1,053 people are reported killed in the Kathmandu Valley alone. Officials fear the death toll could rise as desperate search for survivors continued.

Mass cremations were held here as the death toll continued to climb throughout the day.



International rescue teams, including from India, have arrived here as Nepal declared a state of emergency in the wake of the disaster, the worst in over 80 years of the country's recorded history.



India has mounted a major rescue and rehabilitation effort, deploying 13 military aircraft which carried medicines, field hospitals, blankets, 50 tonnes of water and other materials.



More than 700 disaster relief experts drawn from the National Disaster Relief Force have been deployed by India.



A senior-level inter-ministerial team will visit Nepal to assess how India can better assist in the relief operations.



Rescuers have been hunting for survivors under heaps of debris with bare hands as well as heavy equipment though the efforts have been hampered due to fresh tremors, thunderstorms and snowfall in the mountain ranges.



Officials here said five Indians, including the daughter of an Indian embassy employee, were among those killed in the quake.



Locals and tourists sifted through mounds of debris for survivors. Cheers rose when people were found alive, though mostly bodies were pulled out.



Like many other areas of Nepal, Kathmandu is facing a colossal challenge of dealing with the devastation from the disaster.



Whole streets and squares were covered in rubble in the capital, with an estimated metropolitan area population of around 3 million residents.



Locals and tourists sifted through mounds of debris for survivors. Cheers rose when people were found alive, though mostly bodies were pulled out.



MI-17 helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have carried out five casualty evacuation sorties and the injured have been moved to military hospitals.



An Indian attempting to climb all the highest peaks in the seven continents, 54-year-old Ankur Bahl is also stuck at Camp II on Mount Everest along with 11 other fellow climbers.



Bahl had moved to Camp II from Camp I yesterday but is now stranded due to the earthquake.



The earthquake and the aftershocks left behind a trail of death and destruction, flattening houses and buildings, including the iconic Dharhara tower and the landmark Darbar Square in the heart of the capital, trapping scores of people.



According to initial reports related to Sunday's aftershock, a tunnel caved in at the Trishuli Hydel Project and around 60 labourers are feared trapped.
</text>