<url>
http://www.myarklamiss.com/story/d/story/update-rescuers-struggle-to-reach-villages-as-toll/14114/LD5IM2goSkCbEU-baYGY-Q
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
UPDATE: Rescuers Struggle to Reach Villages as Toll Hits 3,600
</headline>

<text>
BHAKTAPUR, Nepal — Rescuers struggled to reach Nepal's more rural communities on Monday to assess the damage from a devastating earthquake that has left more than 3,600 people dead.



The 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Saturday, killing thousands and flattening centuries-old buildings in the capital city of Kathmandu. The temblor also sparked a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.



Kathmandu residents were continuing to sleep outside following two days of powerful aftershocks. The official death toll jumped to more than 3,600 on Monday, according to The Associated Press and Reuters, and aid agencies warned that figure could leap higher once rescuers make it to isolated rural communities.







KATHMANDU, Nepal — A major aftershock hit the Kathmandu area of Nepal on Sunday, terrifying locals as rescuers dug for survivors of a devastating earthquake which left more than 2,500 people dead.



The United States Geological Survey said the tremor registered an initial 6.7 magnitude — compared with the day earlier's 7.8 magnitude quake.



The aftershock sparked screams and sent terrified people into the streets of Kathmandu. At the city's airport, the floor rolled with the tremor. Passengers rushed past the immigration desks and customs officials abandoned their seats, rushing to take cover along a row of pillars as the building shook and lights briefly went out.











Kathmandu, Nepal -- Rescue crews and residents in Nepal early Sunday began the desperate search for survivors after a magnitude-7.8 quake near the capital of Kathmandu a day earlier flattened homes, buildings and temples, causing widespread damage across the region and killing more than 1,400 people.



Whole streets and squares in the capital of roughly 1 million people were covered in rubble. Stunned residents stared at temples that were once part of their daily lives and now were reduced to nothing.



Locals and tourists ferreted through mounds of debris in search of survivors. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. The injured ended up being treated outside overflowing hospitals, where crowds of people gathered looking for relatives.



Dozens of bodies were pulled from the nine-story Dharahara tower that came crashing down during the quake. At least 13 people were killed on Mount Everest, where the quake caused multiple avalanches.



A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Residents huddled in the cold rain overnight for safety.



And the death toll of 1,457 is expected to rise as the full extent of the damage is assessed.



The loss of life reported so far "is really based on the information we have from the main cities," Lex Kassenberg, Nepal country director for CARE International, told CNN. "But if you look at the spread of the earthquake a lot of the rural areas have been hit as well. The information we received from the field is that 80% of the houses in these rural areas have been destroyed."


</text>