<url>
http://thechronicleherald.ca/editorials/1283030-editorial-canada-answers-quake-stricken-nepal%E2%80%99s-call
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
EDITORIAL: Canada answers quake-stricken Nepal’s call
</headline>

<text>
Like Haiti, Nepal is ill-equipped to provide its almost 31 million citizens with the basics of life in good times, much less during a natural disaster like Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

The death toll in the landlocked, partly mountainous nation is now more than 4,000 and is expected to climb as rescuers reach remote villages, many cut off by landslides, at the quake’s epicentre northwest of Kathmandu. More than 7,200 are reported injured.

Kathmandu, the nation’s capital and home to 1.7 million people, is without water, food or electricity. Streets are impassable, filled with people who are homeless or afraid to return to damaged homes as aftershocks of up to 4.6 on the Richter scale continue. Heavy rain is forecast.

Mitchell Pineo of Berwick, in Nepal for a music festival, told his mother that Kathmandu resembles a war zone.

With a per capita income of $730, a quarter of its citizens living below the poverty line and 123 ethnic groups, this monarchy-turned-republic has struggled in recent years with a revolving door of coalition governments.

Nepal is Asia’s poorest country. Fewer than half of its roads and only a quarter of its airport runways are paved, and it lacks transportation and energy infrastructure.

There is only one physician per 5,000 people and the rate of infectious disease is high.

There are some bright spots. The quake occurred on Saturday and children thankfully weren’t in schools, many now damaged or destroyed.

The UN’s refugee arm, UNHCR, is already in Nepal because of influxes of refugees from Bhutan and Tibet. It is rushing tarps and solar lamps, which can recharge cellphones, to stricken areas. Half of Nepal’s citizens are children, so UNICEF is also on the ground.

Because government aid cannot be relied on, people turn to neighbours and community to cope during disasters.

What help there is can be uneven. An avalanche killed 18 people at Mount Everest’s base camp and survivors were airlifted out by helicopters, but World Vision reported that almost no aid had reached the earthquake’s epicentre at Gorka more than 48 hours after it struck.

Up to 462 Canadians are reported to be in Nepal. While some, like Mr. Pineo and former New Brunswick NDP leader Elizabeth Weir, have been in touch with friends and family, others are unaccounted for. The Canadian Red Cross, Oxfam Canada, Médecins Sans Frontières Canada and other charities are accepting donations for the area.

Despite its poverty, Nepal is one of the largest contributors of troops to international peacekeeping missions.

The international community is responding in kind. At least a dozen countries have sent in medical and rescue teams, the largest from India. Canada is deploying a group from its disaster assistance military unit (DART) to see if the unit can help, is assessing needs in Nepal and has pledged a respectable initial $5 million in aid, compared to $1.2 million from the U.S., $3.6 million from China and more than $9 million from the United Kingdom.

Ottawa announced Monday that it will match Canadians’ donations to the Nepal earthquake aid effort.

Given the magnitude of destruction and the lack of shelter, clean water, food and sanitation that now threaten survivors, the international community must act quickly to provide desperately needed health care and emergency aid for the citizens of this stricken country.
</text>