<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/families-hell-after-nepal-earthquake-5594329
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Families' hell after Nepal earthquake as they wait to hear from the 42 British and Irish still missing
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Desperate relatives of 42 British and Irish nationals are today entering their fourth day waiting for news of loved ones still missing in Nepal.

The International Committee of the Red Cross yesterday released a list of 90 people still unaccounted for after the earthquake, but by last night more than half had reported they were safe.

Some told amazing tales of survival, but fears were last night growing for student Susannah Ross, 20, known as Soozie, from Bath, Somerset.

She is believed to be trapped in a national park in the Himalayas without food or water.

An SOS from a walker in her party was spotted by Soozie’s mum Judy, 62, yesterday. It said the group was in desperate need of medical aid.

Soozie’s sister Nina, 25, said: “They sent the coordinates, but said some are injured and they don’t have food or water and really need to be rescued.

“They said they need a helicopter to get out.”

Judy said: “We have seen she was marked as ‘I am alive’ on a website, but we’ve no idea who put that there.”

(Image: Getty)

Chloe Pincho, 27, of Carshalton, Surrey, initially feared missing, was last night reported to be safe.

However, there was no word on her boyfriend Brennan White, also of Carshalton.

The parents of student Matt Carapiet, 23, from Bearsted, Kent, also used the site to appeal for information about their son, who was trekking in Nepal.

Gregory, 56, and Jill, 55, wrote: “Hi Matts, hope you are safe and well, contact us know as soon as you can. Mum and Dad x.”

Selina Dicker, 38, of Fulham, South London, survived disaster on Mount Everest a second time when she ran to a ridge to flee the avalanche. She was at the same camp last year when an avalanche killed 16 sherpas.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Selina, of Ranworth, Norfolk, told her parents she was safe in a satellite call. Mum Gail, 61, said: “She’s a very lucky girl.”

Other lucky Brits included Samuel Bond, 28, of Doynton, Glos, Seb Lovera, from Tonbridge, Kent, and Sam Stalker, 25, from Kirkham, Lancs, who have contacted home.

Brothers Jason and Darren Russell, 28 and 26, from Wrexham, North Wales, are also safe.

(Image: REUTERS/6summitschallenge.com)

Survivor Emily McLeish, 33, of Henley-on-Thames, Oxon, criticised the British High Commission response. She said: “I have had no help from anyone.”

One of the victims of the quake was US student Dr Marisa Eve Girawong, 29, who was studying mountain medicine at the University of Leicester. Marisa, from New Jersey, died in the avalanche which struck Everest base camp.
</text>