<url>
http://www.theoaklandpress.com/general-news/20150427/west-bloomfield-doctor-raising-money-to-aid-nepal-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
West Bloomfield doctor raising money to aid Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
Namrata Grumblatt, left, is comforted by her husband, Jarrod Grumblatt. A Waterford resident, Namrata, a Nepal native, has been worrying about her parents who live in Nepal, which was hit by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake April 25. Photo by Carol Hopkins, The Oakland Press

A West Bloomfield doctor who has spent years supporting the people of Nepal is working to raise funds for that nation devastated by Saturday’s massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Richard Keidan, 60, oversees the nonprofit organization he created, Detroit2Nepal, and he is focusing fundraising efforts to help Nepal over the next week.

Keidan visited the country northeast of India in 1983 when he was a young resident and “was influenced by the people and the spirit of the country,” said Heidi Hedquist, spokesperson for the nonprofit.

Keidan said he fell in love with the people and the country.

Advertisement

“They have a lust for life and a love of family,” he said. He also said the residents of this extremely poor nation want to educate their children.

Hedquist said Keidan visits the country, where the Himalayan mountains rise up in the north. Mt. Everest is located in Nepal.

Keidan, a cancer surgeon, has been raising funds to provide the region with sanitation, scholarships and healthcare.

“Nepal is close to his heart,” said Hedquist. “It’s his second home.”

Detroit2Nepal is planning a fundraiser called Over the Edge on May 8. People attending will be allowed to rappel from the First National Building in Detroit. Half the funds will be donated to disaster relief in Nepal.

Earthquakes are a constant threat, said Keidan.

“This one was devastating,” said Keidan, who learned that previous projects built by Detroit2Nepal have been damaged.

Much of the fundraising globally will help the more urban areas, said Keidan.

Detroit2Nepal will focus its efforts in the outlying villages.

“Detroit is the greatest city in the world and I know Detroit will step up and respond. People an donate to the May 8 fundraiser or they can go to our website, detroit2nepal.org, and donate directly there as well,” said Keidan.

“People don’t have to feel helpless after this quake,” he added.

“Even $5 or $10 will make a huge difference.”

Death toll continues to rise

Nepal’s government says the needs of its people are acute, with 3,700 dead and the toll expected to rise. Also, more than 6,300 people are injured, and tens of thousands lost homes.

The epicenter of the quake was in Nepal’s Gorkha district.

Landslides and other destruction delayed attempts to reach the district earlier, but Gorkha is feared to have extensive damage.

Witnesses are reporting most of the newer concrete buildings were intact after the quake but remote mountainside villages were reportedly devastated.

Waterford woman worried

A Waterford hair stylist from Nepal heard about the quake from her brother.

“He called me Saturday at 7 a.m. about it,” said Namrata Grumblatt, 47, who works at Precision Cuts.

Grumblatt’s parents live in Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital.

Grumblatt was “shaking and crying” as she then tried phoning her parents without success.

“Normally they answer right away,” she said.

Finally Grumblatt’s aunt, who lives next door to Grumblatt’s parents in Nepal, called to tell her the family was OK.

She admitted she still is worried. Her husband Jarrod Grumblatt stopped at the salon Monday to check on her.

“I am not going to feel comfortable until I talk with them,” she said.

Grumblatt, who has lived in the U.S. for 15 years, has watched updates about the destruction. “I’m glad a lot of countries are helping out,” she said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.
</text>