<url>
http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/foreign-minister-julie-bishops-says-grave-fears-are-held-for-at-least-one-australian-unaccounted-for-after-avalanches-in-himilayas/story-fni0cx4q-1227323114228?nk=f721260063c77cd56f7d4c7ceff815bb
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Foreign Minister Julie Bishops says grave fears are held for at least one Australian unaccounted for after avalanches in Himilayas
</headline>

<text>
GRAVE fears are held for at least one Australian believed to have been caught up in an avalanche at Mt Everest base camp.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop today said more than 850 Australians had been confirmed as safe following the weekend earthquake in Nepal that has left thousands dead.

But the worst is feared for at least one Australian.

“I do hold grave fears for the welfare of one Australian who was known to be at the Mount Everest base camp where a number of deaths have occurred,” Ms Bishop said.

“We are currently working to confirm this person’s identity.”

THE CITY THAT MOVED 3M IN 30 SECONDS

media_camera A Mt Everest climber captured this dramatic cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake at Everest Base Camp moments before it flattened part of the camp in the Himalayas on Saturday. Picture: AP

Ms Bishop would not reveal further details on the Australian believed in trouble in Nepal, saying the person’s family needed to be contacted.

“The details are very sketchy at this stage. You must understand that communications are very difficult and we need to have people on the ground to verify that,” she said.

A team of nine crisis experts from the Department of Foreign Affairs were on their way to the disaster zone to assist in recovery efforts.

media_camera Matt Dravas, pictured with wife Brittany and daughter Zipporah, is heading for some of the more remote villages hit by the earthquake in his role as World Vision aid worker. Picture: Facebook

Meanwhile, Australian aid workers fear the Nepal earthquake death toll will continue to rise as remote villages decimated by the 6.7 magnitude quake are slowly accessed.

World Vision’s Matt Darvas has been in Nepal for two years and was today heading to some of the small inaccessible villages in the Gorkha district in between Kathmandu and Pokhara where thousands more could have been killed.

“Yesterday I went to the government hospital in Pokhara where the first helicopter patients were landing,” he said.

“I spoke to one man who is 75 years old from a village with 2100 households. When the earthquake struck it was like an explosion, there were rocks going everywhere. He believes 90 per cent of the houses in his village were destroyed.

“He came with a nine-year-old girl whose house fell on her and her brother was there to pull her from the rubble.

media_camera An elderly survivor breathes oxygen from a cylinder under a makeshift shelter in Kathmandu. An Australian aid worker believes lack of drinking water will be pivotal in the wake of the disaster. Picture: AFP

“There will be many more stories of villages that were decimated that no one has heard from or may have contact with for days. Many don’t have local health posts.

“The hospital is overwhelmed, they have only four or five doctors to deal with thousands of patients. Drinking water will be a real issue. The death toll is sure to rise in these outer lying areas where they are few responders at the moment.”

The Pennant Hills man and his wife Brittany scooped up their baby daughter, Zipporah, when they fled their Pokhara homes 80km from when the earthquake hit on Saturday.

“We quickly bundled up our daughter and rushed outside. The ground was shaking for two to three minutes. It went for an incredibly long time. There have been 20 small tremors since then,” he said.

“Yesterday at 1pm we had another very large shake which they are calling a quake in itself, it was around 6.4 magnitude.

“The last tremor was 10pm last night. It’s very scary and for aid workers our families are still on the firing line and experiencing aftershocks. That is a concern for me going into this area where are frequent landslides and expected aftershocks.”

media_camera Kathmandu residents camp outside after Saturday’s catastrophic earthquake in Nepal. Picture: Jack Waddell

Mr Darvas said relief efforts needed to be aimed at those that needed them the most.

“The Gorkha district is badly affected and there are no reporters there. There is a big focus on Kathmandu and a big focus on the climbers at Mt Everest. There could thousands of Nepalis in these villages who are not being accounted for,” he said.

“I know it’s important to focus on these international climbers but we need to start thinking about these villages which were decimated.

“These rural areas were already in extreme poverty with very basic living conditions. The focus should be on making sure their temporary shelters are OK.

“The Nepalese are pretty resilient people but this has struck a lot of fear and anxiety into the population. This has not left anyone untouched in Nepal.”

Meanwhile, Dreamers’ Destination Treks and Expeditions Temba Tsheri managing director told the Daily Telegraph the Australian woman reportedly killed in a group of four on Mt Everest was an Indian national who had been living in Australia.
</text>