<url>
http://www.edmontonsun.com/2015/04/27/st-albert-couple-missing-after-earthquake-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
St. Albert couple missing after earthquake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
play

pause

stop

mute

unmute Voice mail from Al Hancock

Family of a St. Albert couple who have not been heard from since an earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday are holding on to hope they will turn up safe.

"We have tried to see if there is anybody who has heard of them or been in contact," said Louise Bentley, adding a team of over 20 family members and friends are trying to find her brother Bruce, 62, and his wife Kathy Macmillan, 58.

"All of the information that we are getting from that area is extremely grim, hundreds of people caught under avalanches, and we have no word."

Bruce and Kathy had been travelling through Asia for about six months, and had made plans for their two sons -- Fraser Macmillan, 30, and Jay Macmillan, 28 -- to join them in Nepal on April 27.

Bruce last checked in on April 20, to alert family that they had made a last minute decision to trek through Langtang National Park before they were to meet their sons in Kathmandu, Nepal.

But on Saturday, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake rocked Nepal. The death toll continues to rise, with well over 3,500 people confirmed dead as of Monday morning, with another 6,500 injured.

"They are right in the heart of the most hard hit area," said Louise, adding loved ones are "desperately concerned" for their safety.

Ted Bentley, who is helping the effort to find his brother-in-law and sister-in-law, said the eldest of the couple's sons, Fraser, was already in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck, and -- though forced to sleep outdoors with countless others -- is doing everything he can to help find his parents, passing around their pictures and information.

"He said when the earthquake hit, he had to run for his life," said Ted.

Ted is confident the couple have enough outdoor skills to survive if they are not injured, but is worried they may have been caught up in the devastation.

"These two people are very experienced in the outdoors, but there is very rugged terrain and it's very steep valleys so there's a possibility something very poor could go on," said Ted, adding that they haven't given up hope.

Family members have been in touch with the honourary Canadian Consulate in Kathmandu, but there is little they can do beyond keeping a record of Canadian's reported missing.

Those looking for friends and relatives have turned to social media, scouring the "Langtang Missing/Found People" page on Facebook, helping to share what little information there is with those still waiting for news.

Michael Dawe, a candidate running for both the Alberta Liberal Party and the Green Party of Alberta in Red Deer North, is still waiting for news from his partner, Beverly Williams, who left for Kathmandu on April 22.

Al Hancock, an experienced Edmonton climber whose team was nearly buried by an avalanche while at base camp at Annapurna, in the Himalayas in Nepal -- using knives to cut their way out of their tents -- said in a recent voicemail to his spokesperson, that his team is alive and unharmed, but warned they are running low on food.

"We're just happy to be alive."

@ClaireTheobald

claire.theobald@sunmedia.ca
</text>