<url>
http://www.thesudburystar.com/2015/04/27/lively-man-missing-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Lively man missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Lively resident Steve Walter sounds justifiably apprehensive on the phone, but he remains level-headed and hopeful. His 28-year-old son, Cody, is missing in Nepal.

Cody and a friend were hiking in the mountains and as of Sunday evening, Walter had not heard from the pair in more than three days.

A 7.9-magnitude earthquake devastated the small Asian country on Saturday. As of Sunday afternoon, the New York Times was reporting more than 2,400 people had been killed, and more than 5,900 were injured.

Ayugma Acharya, a student at St. Benedict's Catholic Secondary School, who emigrated with his parents to Sudbury in 2008 from Nepal, still has many family members in the mountainous country. He said on Sunday communication has been spotty since Saturday's earthquake, mostly due to problems with phone lines and power supplies.

"That's obviously what I'm hoping," Walter said. "The fact they were hiking in the mountains. They weren't in the city at the time, so my thoughts are that they're probably just out of communication with everybody, because they're hiking."

The BBC was reporting massive damage at the quake's epicentre, extending from Kathmandu, the nation's capital, to the city of Pokhara, which has a population of about 300,000.

Violent aftershocks at the Mount Everest base camp triggered a fatal avalanche late Saturday that reportedly killed at least 18 people.

"They weren't that high up," Walter said. "They weren't hiking to the top of the mountains; they were just doing a 20-day hike at the lower levels."

Cody's mother, Donna Kanerva, confirmed on Monday that her son is with a group of hikers in Langtang National Park.

Cody Walter and his friend weren't the only Canadians in Nepal when the earthquake hit. Brett Starke said he will always remember the sound of crows when he looks back at his experience surviving Saturday's earthquake in Nepal.

"The crows always started cawing about 10 seconds before a tremor," said Starke, 29. "I'm going to take that memory away from here. That sound is always going to remind me of Kathmandu."

The Ottawa man was just one day away form starting his trek to Mount Everest Base Camp with a group of 22 from the Dream Mountains Foundation when a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, killing about 2,500 people.

"I was in my room with my roommate (Matt Carson) and we were laying in our beds," Starke told Postmedia Network on Sunday. "At first I wasn't sure if (the shaking) was normal and didn't think much of it. But when the closet doors and drawers started opening and slamming shut, I knew there was a problem. That was the point we headed downstairs."

When Starke and Carson entered the hallway, they remember it being hard to see through thick clouds of dust.

"We went downstairs into the courtyard and noticed the fish from the pond were all over the lawn and about a third of the water from the pool had spilled over. Then there was another earthquake," Starke said.

And as soon as they could, team members rushed onto e-mail and Facebook to let friends and family back home know that they were safe. No one from the group was injured.

Ottawa-based filmmaker Elia Saikaly is among the climbers on Mount Everest who survived the avalanche.

Saikaly, who was on the mountain for filming a project, was at Mount Everest Base Camp when the avalanche hit.

According to social media posts from Saikaly, the 24 hours after the earthquake were devastating.

"Dozens were critically injured by the avalanche and many are deceased," he wrote in a Facebook update Sunday. "It's all been incredibly surreal. A nightmare I desperately want to wake up from."

Saikaly described a vivid scene that revealed a lot of death and emotion. "Bodies remain wrapped in blue tarp awaiting evacuation," he said. "Blood on the white snow, bodies being carried by stretchers and ladders."

Saikaly was also part of the team to help move the body of his friend, Goggle executive Dan Fredinburg, who died in the avalanche.

"I can't even explain the grief and shock I felt," Saikaly said. "I held his toe after we lay him down. Tears flow down my face as I said goodbye to his beautiful soul. My head weeps for his closest friends and family." According to his website, Saikaly has climbed Mount Everest twice before and has been a part of 16 other expeditions around the world.

He is also a former actor, model and MuchMusic VJ and has appeared on numerous Canadian and American broadcasts including NBC, CBS, CTV and CBC.

In Calgary, the words "I'm alive" is all one family got from their loved one in Nepal late Saturday evening before the line went dead.

Time stood still until that point for the family of Jeremy Davidson, 25, as they desperately waited for the phone to ring ... to hear those words.

Davidson landed in Katmandu April 20 to spend two weeks volunteering at Pema Chuling Monastery.

The young humanitarian's aunt, Tiara Falica, told Postmedia Network that Davidson would normally call home every time he'd come down from the mountain monastery.

This time they weren't so sure they were going to get that call.

"We're happy, but we're still really worried. We don't know that he's out of danger yet," Falica said.

"Now we wait."

Faye Kennedy's family, meanwhile, hasn't heard from her in more than a week.

That ordinarily wouldn't trouble them. But since she's trekking in the Langtang National Park area of Nepal, their concern is growing and Kennedy's family has yet to have any updates on the 32-year-old.

"It's a difficult situation," said Justin Piche, Kennedy's brother-in-law. "We're hoping for the best."

Kennedy left Ottawa early April, Piche said, but didn't reach Kathmandu, Nepal, until April 20 -- the last time her family heard from her.

Because of her remote location in Langtang National Park, which is about 65 km north of Kathmandu, the family didn't expect to hear from Kennedy again until May 2, before she flew to her next destination in Tibet.

Since news of the devastating earthquake broke, her family has been doing everything they can to try and locate her.

"We're assuming she's still at the National Park," Piche said. "But we were told by the travel company she was dealing with that there is only one helicopter in the area tracking people down. And unless she was one of the first airlifted back to Kathmandu, she's likely still there.

"Given the damage that's been done and the fact that she's in a rural area we could be waiting for quite a long time before we hear back from her," said Piche.

And until then, Kennedy's family is sitting on pins and needles.

"We're just supporting each other and keeping an eye on the news and social media and waiting to hear anything," Piche said. "There's nothing much we can do."

-- with files from Postmedia Network

maryk.keown@sunmedia.ca

Twitter: @marykkeown

705 674 5271 ext. 505235
</text>