<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-earthquake-least-7-brits-5589653
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: At least 7 Brits trapped on Everest after quake blocks escape route
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

At least seven Brits are trapped on Everest after the earthquake blocked their route to base camp.

The Brits were trapped at Camp 1 on the mountain and unable to reach Base Camp.

James Grieve, 52, from Kinross, Scotland, was on a Help for Heroes fundraising trek.

He said last night: “We’re in a race against time to get off.”

The motocross rider managed to make contact with his partner Shirley McGhie, 40.

She said he was in good spirits at the 20,000ft-high camp and waiting for a rescue helicopter.

Shirley added: “There are about 100 people at the camp and only 12 helicopters. Each can only carry two climbers so he will be there for a while.

“They’ve got a couple of days’ food left and will be rationing it so they should be fine.

“James is a pretty tough and resilient man and is in good spirits.”

Mr Grieve’s expedition leader, Daniel Mazur, who works for trekking company Summit Climb, from Bristol, tweeted: “A massive earthquake just hit Everest. Basecamp has been severely damaged. Our team is caught in camp 1. Please pray for everyone.”

Fellow Brit Alex Staniforth was also believed to be with the group.

(Image: SWNS)

And following a huge aftershock yesterday morning, the experienced climber expressed further concerns, posting: “Aftershock at 1pm! Horrible here in camp one. Avalanches on three sides. Camp one a tiny island. We worry about icefall team below..Alive?”

Newlyweds Alex Schneider and Sam Chapatte, from London, were also part of the expedition.

They were climbing with their friend Patrick McKnight, who was with them when they had to abandon an attempt top conquer the mountain last year.

Alex Staniforth, 19, from Kelsall, Cheshire, was also stuck at Camp 1.

A post on his blog read: “Alex is at Camp1 and is safe with his team.”

A Red Cross list of people registered as missing in Nepal by their friends or relatives showed that at least 65 Brits had still not declared themselves safe by midnight on Sunday.

Aberdeen University medical students Joseph Feeney and Calum Henderson were also on a trekking trip to Nepal and were described as “safe but stranded”.

Meanwhile rescuers dug with their bare hands in a sea of rubble as Nepal reeled from its worst disaster in nearly a century.

Saturday’s huge earthquake sent buildings toppling like houses of cards and historic temples were reduced to ruins.

A powerful aftershock caused yet more devastation.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

As many as 70 Brits were initially feared missing in the disaster. But many have now contacted their relieved families to say they were safe.

The official death toll from the 7.8 magnitude event which struck crowded Kathmandu Valley, stands at more than 2,500 with 5,800 injured.

And as dazed families faced a second freezing night in the open, made worse by heavy rain, there were fears the death toll would rise.

Most of the capital Kathmandu remains without power and water with tent cities springing up.

Hospital workers have stretched patients out in the street as it is too dangerous to keep them indoors with aftershocks threatened.

British Red Cross worker Mark South, in Kathmandu, said: “From the readings, the original quake lasted 40 seconds. It was the longest 40 seconds of my life.”

Amid fears of a humanitarian disaster, Britain put up a £5million relief fund and volunteers from the UK headed to the stricken land.

Witnesses said there was barely any sign of organised relief outside the capital with aid agencies struggling to bring in supplies.

Indian military helicopters airlifted some injured to hospital but officials said their operations had been hampered by rain, cloud cover and repeated aftershocks.

A team of 16 from Search and Rescue Assistance in Disasters flew out from London with the latest in search equipment.

The group are set to join an international aid effort with an estimated 300,000 foreign tourists in the country.

Team leader Gary Francis, 52, from Bridgham in Norfolk, said: “Seeing all the news footage of death and destruction you just want to be able to get out and help. That’s what drives us.”

They hope to remain self-sufficient for 15 days and will be taking 1.5 tonnes of equipment including sound and vibration detectors, search cameras and cutting equipment.

He added that sleep would be a luxury once they set to work.

The crew includes medics, lorry drivers, engineers and emergency service staff.

Oxfam already has teams in Nepal assessing what is required with a team of technical experts preparing to fly from the UK.

Christian Aid has made £50,000 available and the British Red Cross has launched an emergency appeal.

The Department for International Development said it had released £3million to address immediate needs on the ground, and £2million will be given to the Red Cross.

International Development Secretary Justine Greening said it meant funds could be fast-tracked to aid workers.

Among Britons who have had dramatic escapes are Julia Carroll, 22, and boyfriend Tom Challis, 23.

The pair, who met at Swansea university, were white water rafting as the quake struck.

(Image: Getty)

As they passed through a deep gorge, boulders rained down after being shaken loose from cliffs above them.

They managed to get ashore and spent the night on a beach before catching a tourist bus to Kathmandu.

Tom’s father Michael, 59, of Tamworth, Staffs, said: “He said there were pretty big rocks coming down. Tom is normally unflappable so if he is shaken up you can guarantee it was pretty bad.”

Julia’s parents John and wife Denise Carroll, of Boxford, Suffolk, finally got a Facebook message from their law graduate daughter which said, “I’m alive”.

Civil servant John, 59, said: “Julia was very upset and clearly shocked. They are due to go a relief camp.”

Hiker Joanne Hinds, 30, from Manchester is also safe, but stranded.

Her brother Jack said: “Joanne had literally left Everest base camp two days ago and then it got hit – she was very lucky. We are so relieved she is OK.”

Another Brit to have survived is Eleanor Walker-Corriette, 35, from Nottingham, who is 25 weeks pregnant with her first child.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

She was in Nepal with husband Robbie, 36, and a designer sourcing products for her jewellery shop.

Eleanor’s mum Marylin, 62, from Hull, said: “We were so worried. Then she rang to say she was OK. Then she had to go because of another quake.

“They were staying at a hotel in Kathmandu but were locked out at 2am. Now they’ve found a place to stay in a British camp.”

The quake, with tremors felt in Pakistan and Bangladesh, was the strongest in Nepal since one in 1934 that killed around 12,000.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said: “There are several hundred British nationals in Nepal at this time of year, but we have no reports of any killed or injured.

“British Embassy staff have provided practical help to around 200 nationals.

“Consular staff have been scouring hospitals, hotels and areas popular with tourists looking for British nationals who may need assistance.”

The Foreign Office has set up a helpline on 0207 008 0000 for people worried about loved ones.
</text>