<url>
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/nepal-earthquake-stories-from-alberta-1.3050766
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: stories from Alberta
</headline>

<text>
The number of people killed following Saturday's earthquake in Nepal has soared past 4,000 and is expected to grow as search and rescue crews make their way through the rubble.

CBC Calgary is hearing from many Albertans affected by the deadly quake — either because they are in Nepal or have family living, or visiting, the country.

Mt. Everest survivor

Mount Royal University astronomy and physics professor Raphael Slawinski was sitting at base camp on the north side of Mount Everest, when he felt tremors.

"It was like an avalanche coming without the noise. It was like being on the deck of a swaying ship."

Raphael Slawinski and Ian Welsted were named National Geographic Adventurer of the Year in 2014 after reaching the summit of K6 West in Pakistan's Karakoram mountain range. (Raphael Slawinski)

Slawinski says he and his entire team are safe, but h​e may not be able to continue his climb up the China side of the mountain.

"We were told the season here is probably over. Whether we want to or not, we may not get crack at the mountain anyway," he said.

Either way, Slawinski hopes Calgarians continue to support the Nepali people through this tragedy.

In April, Calgay climber and MRU professor Raphael Slawinski will attempt a new route on China side of Mt. Everest. (raphaelslawinski.blogspot.com)

"It's easy to sympathize with the first week or so, when the media is full of images of what's going on, but their misery will go on, much much longer."

He says the mood at his camp is very subdued.

"A lot of the staff, the Sherpas and the cooking staff are from Nepal and either they've lost someone, or their houses may be damaged or destroyed," he said.

Calgary doctor in Kathmandu Valley

Christine Gibson is a Calgary physician and University of Calgary professor who travels regularly to Nepal to work with local doctors. She arrived in Patan, a city just outside Kathmandu, three weeks ago.

Christine Gibson teaches medicine at the University of Calgary and travels regularly to Nepal to work with local doctors there. (Christine Gibson/Linkedin)

Gibson says none of the physicians she works with has slept a wink since the first earthquake hit on Saturday.

"They have been camping outdoors in the parking lot with their patients on the tarp. They're just working around the clock here," said the founder of the not-for-profit Global FamilyMed Foundation.

Our ED Christine is in Nepal and urges donations to http://t.co/QXQd2KgWpB More info on GFF's work in Patan is here: http://t.co/zh2FdIjiMU — @globalfamilymed

"These are people who already have little. Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world but whatever anybody has, they've giving to others," she said.

"What's been so incredible is watching all of these communities fight for each other and take care of each other."

The Calgary Nepalese Community Association is working with the city and police to organize a candlelight vigil in Calgary.

The association is also encouraging people to make donations through various international agencies or NRNA NCC-Canada.The federal government will match all charitable donations over the next month.

Here's a list of international aid organizations taking donations.
</text>