<url>
http://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/weather/2015/04/26/nepal-earthquake-iowa-response-iowa-nepalese-association/26429321/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Iowan worried missing in Nepal located; Nepalese natives share quake worries
</headline>

<text>
Cole Donahue has checked in with family and friends. (Photo: Facebook)

UPDATE: Cole Donahue, a 30-year-old New Albin native who was traveling in Nepal and was planning to trek Mt. Everest, reached out to family and friends on Monday via Facebook to let them know he was safe.

After hearing about the devastating earthquake that rattled his home country of Nepal this weekend, Iowa State University student Umesh Chaudhary tried calling his parents back at home at Chitwan.

No answer.

Over and over again, Chaudhary tried reaching his family Saturday, desperate to hear some word of good news amid the horror stories of the country's worst earthquake in 80 years blaring on television and the Internet.

Still, no answer.

By morning, Chaudhary was able to reach his parents, learning they were both safe. But many other people Chaudhary knows are still missing in the disaster, including a friend's father whom he refers to as an uncle.

"It's really heartbreaking," said Chaudhary, the president of ISU's chapter of the Nepalese Students' Association. "I mean, it's my homeland and a lot of people have died. It's hard right now. I don't know what to say." Chaudhary was able to reach his parents, learning they were both safe. But many other people Chaudhary knows are still missing in the disaster, including a friend's father whom he refers to as an uncle.

More than 2,500 people in Nepal have died after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake shattered the nation Saturday, with most of the country still reeling from the disaster.

Relief groups started arriving Sunday, but Nepal is a poverty-stricken nation. And the devastation has already taken a particularly punishing toll in the country in south-central Asia.

RELATED:

Almost 6,000 people were injured, with many still missing, including 30-year-old New Albin native Cole Donahue, who was traveling in Nepal and was planning to trek Mt. Everest.

(Photo: Facebook)

Family and friends had set up both a Google Person Finder page and a Facebook page dedicated to finding new information about the whereabouts of Donahue, whose last place of residence was Tulsa, Okla.

The Google page indicates that Donahue was around the Mt. Everest base camp at his last correspondence. His sister-in-law, Anna Donahue, told a Cedar Rapids television station that his last check-in via phone came on April 21 and that he had arrived in Nepal on April 15.

Anna Donahue told KCRG-TV that Cole was expected to return to the United States on May 2.

In its description of Donahue, the Google page says he is "easily identifiable by his 5-foot-8-inch stature, gregarious personality, ability to tell any story perfectly and unmistakable laugh."

Messages left to Anna Donahue and other family members on Sunday were not immediately returned.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The death toll is in the thousands following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake in Nepal. The quake also sparked an avalanche at Mount Everest. Rescue workers continue to search for missing and trapped people. Wochit

Here in Iowa, Chaudhary said he feels at a loss when his home country is on the other side of the world and he's in the Midwest, unable to directly help.

"I feel like if I could do something, that would be great. But right now I'm feeling very helpless," Chaudhary said.

The Iowa Nepalese Association in West Des Moines is raising money to try to help the earthquake victims. Bikal Adhikari, 41, of West Des Moines said money is not only needed to help people survive, but many historical sites were also destroyed.

"Where's our identity? There's no way we can just let go," Adhikari said. "We need to rebuild, and that takes time and money."

Adhikari's parents, who live in the central region of Lamjung, were also safe following the earthquake. But with many survivors needing food, water and shelter, he said it is necessary for people to contribute as much as they're able.

"We really need big help," Adhikari said. "We need to help people eat and live."

For now, Chaudhary will continue his doctoral studies in chemistry at ISU, with hopes of returning to Nepal once he graduates.

"I just want to see no people dying. I have grown my whole life over there," Chaudhary said. "It's terrible. I hope there's going to be a lot more help from outside Nepal."

HOW IOWANS CAN HELP IN NEPAL

Nationally, there are several organizations already on the ground to reach out to when giving aid for Nepal earthquake victims.

Save the Children, which has worked in Nepal in 1976, has on-the-ground response teams in the country. Visit Save the Children to find links to donate.

Visit Save the Children to find links to donate. The humanitarian group Oxfam has also sent workers to the south Asian country. Visit Oxfam for more information.

The CARE organization is aiming to assist up to 75,000 people. Visit CARE to donate.

Other lines of direct donation include:

MercyCorps

Habitat for Humanity

Direct Relief

Alternately, text "Nepal" to 864233 to donate $10 to UNICEF.

To make a tax deductible donation to the Iowa Nepalese Association to help disaster victims, visit http://www.iowanepaleseassociation.org/

If you are mailing a check, make it payable to:

Iowa Nepalese Association

1127 90th St

West Des Moines, IA 50266

For direct deposits, INA bank account info:

Wells Fargo Bank

Account#: 9793834962

Routing#: 073000228

Wire Transfer Inside US#: 121000248

Read or Share this story: http://dmreg.co/1GweeNM
</text>