<url>
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/desperate-race-against-time-to-save-trapped-everest-climbers/story-e6frg6so-1227322986923?nk=d653bfcedf1ef69787a51759535d4cba
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Desperate race against time to save trapped Everest climbers
</headline>

<text>
Desperate race against time to save trapped Everest climbers

The death toll from Nepal’s earthquake has soared past 3,700, and how much higher it would rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster.

Reports received so far by the government and aid groups suggest that many communities perched on mountainsides are devastated or struggling to cope. Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for the Gorkha district, near the epicenter of Saturday’s quake, said he was in desperate need of help.

“There are people who are not getting food and shelter. I’ve had reports of villages where 70 percent of the houses have been destroyed,” he said.

He said 223 people had been confirmed dead in the district but he presumed “the number would go up because there are thousands who are injured.”

Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 earthquake spread horror from Kathmandu to small villages and to the slopes of Mount Everest, triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts.

Timalsina said his district had not received enough help from the central government, but Jagdish Pokhrel, the clearly exhausted army spokesman, said nearly the entire 100,000-soldier army was involved in rescue operations.

A member of the Nepalese army walks through a damaged area caused by Saturday's earthquake, in Bhaktapur. Picture: AP

“We have 90 percent of the army out there working on search and rescue,” he said. “We are focusing our efforts on that, on saving lives.”

Nepal police said in a statement Monday that the country’s death toll had risen to 3,617 people. That does not include the 18 people killed in the avalanche, which were counted by the mountaineering association. Another 61 people were killed in neighboring India, and China reported 20 people dead in Tibet.

Well over 1,000 of the victims were in Kathmandu, the capital, where an eerie calm prevailed Monday.

Tens of thousands of families slept outdoors for a second night, fearful of aftershocks that have not ceased. Camped in parks, open squares and a golf course, they cuddled children or pets against chilly Himalayan nighttime temperatures.

School children hold candles and offer prayers for victims of Nepal's earthquake, at a temple in Gorkha Nagar. Picture: AP

They woke to the sound of dogs yelping and jackhammers. As the dawn light crawled across toppled building sites, volunteers and rescue workers carefully shifted broken concrete slabs and crumbled bricks mixed together with humble household items: pots and pans; a purple notebook decorated with butterflies; a framed poster of a bodybuilder; so many shoes.

“It’s overwhelming. It’s too much to think about,” said 55-year-old Bijay Nakarmi, mourning his parents, whose bodies recovered from the rubble of what once was a three-story building.

He could tell how they died from their injuries. His mother was electrocuted by a live wire on the roof top. His father was cut down by falling beams on the staircase.

He had last seen them a few days earlier - on Nepal’s Mothers’ Day - for a cheerful family meal.

“I have their bodies by the river. They are resting until relatives can come to the funeral,” Nakarmi said as workers continued searching for another five people buried underneath the wreckage.

A Nepalese resident clears debris from his damaged house in Balaju. Picture: AFP

Kathmandu district chief administrator Ek Narayan Aryal said tents and water were being handed out Monday at 10 locations in Kathmandu, but that aftershocks were leaving everyone jittery. The largest, on Sunday, was magnitude 6.7.

“There have been nearly 100 earthquakes and aftershocks, which is making rescue work difficult. Even the rescuers are scared and running because of them,” he said.

“We don’t feel safe at all. There have been so many aftershocks. It doesn’t stop,” said Rajendra Dhungana, 34, who spent Sunday with his niece’s family for her cremation at the Pashuputi Nath Temple.

Acrid, white smoke rose above the Hindu temple, Nepal’s most revered. “I’ve watched hundreds of bodies burn,” Dhungana said.

The capital city is largely a collection of small, poorly constructed brick apartment buildings. The earthquake destroyed swaths of the oldest neighborhoods, but many were surprised by how few modern structures collapsed in the quake.

On Monday morning, some pharmacies and shops for basic provisions opened while bakeries began offering fresh bread. With power lines down, spotty phone connections and almost no Internet connectivity, residents were particularly anxious to buy morning newspapers.

Huge lines of people desperate to secure fuel lined up outside gasoline pumps; prices were the same as they were before the earthquake struck.

“We are not raising prices,” fruit seller Shyam Jaiswal said. “That would be illegal, immoral profit.”

As aid began pouring in from more than a dozen countries, aid workers warned that the situation could be far worse near the epicenter. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was centered near Lamjung, a district about 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu. While not far away, poor roads and steep mountains make Lamjung difficult to reach. Even before the quake, it could take six hours to drive from Kathmandu to parts of the area. Now, many of the few roads are believed to be cut off by small landslides.

The earthquake was the worst to hit the South Asian nation in more than 80 years. It and was strong enough to be felt all across parts of India, Bangladesh, China’s region of Tibet and Pakistan. Nepal’s worst recorded earthquake in 1934 measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.

The quake has put a huge strain on the resources of this impoverished country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

NEPAL EARTHQUAKE - WHAT AUSTRALIANS ARE FACING

SCALE OF DISASTER: Worst disaster involving Australians since MH17 * Worst earthquake in Nepal in 81 years, deadliest in Everest’s history. Saturday quake was 7.8 magnitude; major aftershock on Sunday hit 6.7; aftershocks continue

TOLL: Overall death toll passes 3,600 * More than 6,500 injured * 90 dead in neighbouring countries

AUSTRALIANS IN NEPAL: Australian woman, Renu Fotedar, killed in avalanche at Everest base camp * About 200 believed missing but number still to be confirmed. More than 830 confirmed safe. 549 registered Australian travellers in Nepal

AUSTRALIAN CLIMBERS: Zachary Sheridan, 20, was on Mt Everest and is missing.

Queenslander Alyssa Azar, 18, attempting to become the youngest Australian to climb Everest, is safe.

GOVERNMENT RESPONSE: DFAT crisis team deployed to Nepal to assist Australians and trace the missing * Australia sending $5 million in humanitarian assistance to Nepal, including 500,000 for the Red Cross

COMMUNICATIONS: Damaged or congested. Families face long wait for news and difficulty making contact.

FROM MT EVEREST: “I have lost four team members in the avalanche - two Nepalis, one Chinese and Australian.”Temba Tsheri, a sherpa from the Dreamers’ Destination Treks and Expeditions.

FROM KATHMANDU: “Tragically, more bodies are being pulled from collapsed buildings every hour.” - Australian Red Cross.

HILLARY CONNECTION: Sir Edmund Hillary’s son Peter was trekking on Mt Everest with a group of New Zealanders but is safe.

Nepalese people stay outside in tents in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu.

Nepal races to save victims A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP Nepalese villagers shelter from rain during relief operations following an earthquake at Lapu in Gorkha. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake is carried by a relative towards an Indian Army helicopter. Picture: AFP Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha . Picture: AFP A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP +22 images The uncle of a 12-year-old girl pulled from a collapsed home grieves as he wraps her body in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Rescue teams carry a body dug out of the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Nepalese and Indian rescue teams remove a body from the collapsed Sitapyla church in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Volunteers and emergency workers search for bodies buried under the debris of one of the temples at Basantapur Durbar Square n Kathmandu. Picture: Getty Images Rescue personnel observe damaged buildings in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A woman carries a child next to collapsed houses in Bhaktapur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man consoles his friend during the cremation of his relative killed in the recent earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Suresh, 16, right, watches as a priest prepares the funeral pyre for his younger brother Umesh, 13, killed in Saturday’s earthquake. Picture: AP The official death toll soared past 4000, even without a full accounting from vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster. Picture: AP Israeli women cuddle a newborn baby of a homosexual couple who was born in Nepal to a surrogate mother after they were repatriated to Israel from quake-hit Nepal, at Tel Aviv airport. Picture: AFP A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu. International aid groups and governments intensified efforts to get rescuers and supplies into earthquake-hit Nepal, but severed communications and landslides in the Himalayan nation posed formidable challenges to the relief effort. Picture: AFP People burn the bodies of earthquake victims at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese residents mourn the death of a relative following an earthquake, at a mass cremation in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese rescue personnel rescue a trapped earthquake survivor as his friend lies dead next to him. Picture: AFP A Nepalese resident mourns the death of a relative following an earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Nepalese resident Suresh Parihar plays with his 8-month-old daughter Sandhaya as he is treated for injuries sustained in an earthquake at a city hospital in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP Rescuers carry a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: AFP People clear rubble in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by the earthquake. Picture: AFP A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square. Picture: AFP Rescuers tend to a sherpa injured by an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. Picture: AFP

Devastation in Nepal

Hundreds of climbers remain trapped at Everest.

A British climber stranded on the mountain told a UK newspaper that he had estimated up to 50 people had been killed on Everest and said survivors had only a few days of food and drink left, with many losing their tents.

James Grieve, 52, told The Sun newspaper by satellite phone from Camp One, that the rescue effort was being hampered by storms, and the party’s supplies would last only a few more days.

Climbers have been cut off from the mountain’s base camp, which is reported to have been devastated by the initial 7.8 magnitude quake and Sunday’s large aftershock.

Nepal’s mountaineering department says at least 18 people have been killed and 61 injured, while an unknown number is still missing.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said she holds “grave fears” for the Australian citizen feared killed in the avalanche.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop holds a press conference about Australia’s resposnse to the earthquake.

Australian authorities have confirmed the safety of more than 850 Australians near the earthquake zone, although some are still missing.

“I do hold grave fears for the welfare of one Australian who was known to be at the Mount Everest base camp where a number of deaths have occurred. We are currently working to confirm this person’s identity,” Ms Bishop said in Sydney.

Mr Grieve told The Sun: “Everyone is apprehensive about what’s happening and what will happen in the next 24 hours.

“We have a few days of food and drink left. Our tents have all been lost and we have around 18 dead bodies at base camp.

“Rescue teams are struggling to get us help due to the weather and the next few days’ forecasts are not great. There is a lot of confusion in the camp and there are still about 120 of us here waiting to be rescued.

“We are in a race against time to get off the mountain.”

Some 200 Australians are still believed to be missing after the earthquake.

Messages from the hundreds of Australians believed to be travelling in Nepal have begun filtering back to their families, reassuring many of their loved ones’ safety while others face a continuing anxious wait.

Shepparton man Trevor Norman spent the weekend waiting for news of his sons Brenton, 26, and Jared, 24, who had just arrived in Kathmandu for a long-awaited Everest trek.

A text message at 2 o’clock this morning reassured him that his boys were safe.

“It’s a relief for us,” Mr Norman told The Australian Online. “They’ve got some accommodation, but no food, and they’re trying to get a flight out.”

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says more than 830 Australians are confirmed safe, while her department received more than 1400 calls from anxious families and friends.

“I do hold grave fears for the welfare of one Australian who was known to be at the Mount Everest base camp where a number of deaths have occurred,” Ms Bishop told reporters in Sydney on Monday. “We are currently working to confirm this person’s identity.”

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has sent a nine-person critical response team to Kathmandu, which will try to trace travellers and provide assistance.

Among those waiting for news is Michael Penson, whose 34-year-old son Blake from Perth managed to call from Mount Everest Camp 2 soon after the earthquake erupted.

The site is about 1,000 metres above the base camp where an avalanche struck, killing a number of climbers.

Mr Penson hasn’t heard from his son since and knows the situation is difficult, with the route between the two bases cut. “They can’t climb up and can’t climb down,” Mr Penson said, as he considered whether to fly to Nepal.

But travel seems an unlikely prospect, with Australian officials telling him Nepal is in a state of chaos.

Len Forder knows his 20-year-old daughter Ballantyne, also from Perth is alive, and camping out with orphans from the refuge where she’s been volunteering.

“We do know she’s alive,” he told 6PR radio in Perth, adding there had been some contact, but not direct contact.

“We’re not out of the woods by any means, we’ve still got to get her to safety.” Some Australian survivors who have made contact home are reporting terrible losses.

Camille Thomas, 18, of Victoria’s Apollo Bay, was at a guesthouse in Langtang village north of Kathmandu when the quake struck.

“We ran and hid under some stuff and it all started coming down. Snow and rocks and houses, everything,” she told 3AW radio.

When they emerged, villages surrounding Langtang were no more. “From where we were, there was nothing you could see. All the villages were gone.”

Packed to the Rafters star Hugh Sheridan, whose younger brother Zachary is on Everest, tweeted that he was heading out to Nepal to help in the search.

“I’m on my way to Nepal now and will head toward base camp to try and find Zachary. I will be with a small crew helping with a chopper, a dr and we will have a satellite phone available for any Australian there who needs to reach home and tell their loved ones they’re ok,” he wrote.

Mr Grieve told The Sun there was a plan for helicopters to rescue them on Monday, although “the choppers are only taking two people off at a time”.

He said he believed it could be Wednesday when they would be brought to safety but warned of a forecast metre of snow which could set search teams back.

Ms Bishop said a nine-member crisis response team has been dispatched to Nepal to help secure the safety of missing Australians and assess the humanitarian crisis.

Australia has committed $5 million to “immediate life-saving” aid, including $2.5m to Australian non-government organisations to rapidly provide shelter, clean water, sanitation and healthcare to children and pregnant women.

Another $2m was committed to support the United Nations’ coordination of humanitarian relief, and $500,000 to support the Australian Red Cross.

“Australia stands ready to provide further assistance in the coming days if needed … but we must ensure that the effort is coordinated so it can be as effective and timely as possible,” Ms Bishop said.

Oxfam Australia chief executive Dr Helen Szoke welcomed the aid pledge but said the world would need to do more to help Nepal, and over a likely long period of time. That call is already being heeded by Australia’s 30,000 strong Nepalese community.

Help Nepal Network President Dr Raju Adhikari said about 400 people had contacted him, volunteering to travel there to help with the vast recovery and rebuilding task.

With AP
</text>