<url>
http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/ottawa-woman-injured-but-safe-after-beyond-harrowing-experience-in-nepals-langtang-valley
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Ottawa woman injured but safe after 'beyond harrowing' experience in Nepal's Langtang Valley
</headline>

<text>
An Ottawa woman who went missing during the massive earthquake in Nepal has been found injured but alive.

Faye Kennedy emailed her family Monday afternoon letting them know she was safe and “incredibly lucky to be OK.” Minutes later, she added that she had been airlifted to the capital Kathmandu.

“It’s been beyond words. I am in Kathmandu now because I was put ahead of the line for the helicopter because I was injured,” wrote Kennedy in her email.

Her family doesn’t know the nature or extent of her injuries. An official from the Department of Foreign Affairs told them that Kennedy was marked as “safe” on their registry.

When the earthquake struck, the 32-year-old Kennedy had been hiking in Langtang National Park. She was travelling with people she had met on earlier hikes, Erland Nylend of Norway and Nisha Budha from Nepal.

“It’s been beyond harrowing, but Erland, Nisha and I have all miraculously survived. Erland and Nisha are still stranded by hundreds of dead bodies in Langtang,” wrote Kennedy.

Kennedy is an experienced hiker with outdoor survival skills. She has hiked Annapurna and gone up to Mount Everest base camp on previous trips. For Langtang, Kennedy had packed emergency trail mix but did not bring a tent since she was planning to stay in teahouses along the way.

Her family had been worried that she might have been stuck without food or shelter.

Although Kennedy is safe, her family doesn’t know what kind of care she is receiving for her injuries or when she might be able to return home.

At least 150 people are still stranded or missing in Langtang, according to a database being compiled by an international support group for friends and relatives.

The park is located about 60 kilometres north of Kathmandu.

“There’s only one helicopter and hundreds of people out there,” said Justin Piché, Kennedy’s brother-in-law.

The death toll in Nepal has risen more than 3,700 as of Monday. The 7.8 magnitude earthquake and the aftershocks that followed have devastated Nepal’s towns and villages.

In Monday’s statement release, Kennedy’s family urged Canadians to donate to the rescue efforts in Nepal.

“The people of Nepal are in great need – anything Canadians can do to help would be great,” said Piché.

The Canadian government is contributing $5 million to aid rescue efforts and has already sent relief supplies and an advanced disaster response team to assess the situation.

“It will be a long time before all this resolves itself,” said Piché.
</text>