<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/watch-amanda-holden-make-desperate-5592017
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Watch Amanda Holden make desperate appeal to try to bring sister home following Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Get celebs updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Amanda Holden has been frantically trying to find ways to get her sister Debbie home after she got trapped on Mount Everest following the Nepal earthquake.

The TV presenter fears she won't see her sibling for "a long time" after she was caught up in the huge 7.8 magnitude disaster, which has killed more than 3,800 in Nepal after striking the country on Saturday.

Fortunately, the 44-year-old star has heard from Debbie after the scuba diving instructor - who lives in Thailand - managed to email her family to inform them she is alive.

(Image: Sky News)

Speaking on Sky News, as you can see in the video above, Amanda said: "I don't think we're going to see her for a long time, I'm just dying to hear her voice to be honest with you.

"I want to give her a massive hug, it's one of those things where you think, 'What were you even doing?' We just want her to come home. We're always worried about Debbie.

"My mum is constantly reading and re-reading the email."

(Image: Sky News)

While the This Morning presenter admits Debbie, who also managed to send a text message to Amanda's parents from someone else's phone, is "very very capable", the Britain's Got Talent panellist has been frantically searching the web to find a route to get her sister home.

She added: "She's going to sensibly stay there because they need to wait for people in Kathmandu to get out.

"I've been looking at ways to get out of Lukla but it's a waiting game to be honest.

"How it's gone this badly wrong is just shocking to us and all of those involved.

(Image: Getty Images)

"Debbie's email said she's trying to get to all these different villages, she's getting safer and safer I think which is lucky."

Amanda also revealed Debbie has witnessed "lots of dead bodies and traumas and tragedies" but she knows her sister will be doing all she can to help others in the area.

The TV presenter added: "She's so capable and she'll definitely be doing something to help.

(Image: Getty)

"She's a survivor and she likes to be involved. She's quite bossy but strident, in a good way.

"I think she'd be more than willing to help others."

Amanda admitted her sister was a lot more of an outdoorsy type than her and revealed she had saved up to climb Everest because it was her "dream".

She said: "She's adventurous to say the least. She'd saved up and this was something she was desperate to do.

"She had sent us lots of pictures over the weeks. We joked it looked like something out of Frozen."

Earlier today while co-hosting This Morning, Amanda revealed during a segment discussing the aid effort that her sister had been climbing in Kathmandu when the earthquake hit causing an avalanche.

She said: "I'm still quite numb, it's hard to take in what an awful situation it is in Nepal."

As many as 70 Brits were initially feared missing in the disaster. But many have now contacted their relieved families to say they were safe.
</text>