<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-27/nsw-trekkers-escape-nepal-quake-and-business-woman-returns-home/6424262
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: NSW trekkers escape quake due to altitude sickness
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: NSW trekkers escape quake due to altitude sickness

Updated

A team of trekkers from the New South Wales Mid North Coast escaped the worst of the deadly Nepal earthquake after turning back due to altitude sickness.

Aftershocks continue to jolt Kathmandu and surrounding areas in the wake of Saturday's 7.8-magnitude earthquake, as the official death toll was raised to 3,200 people at 12.00pm (AEDT).

Darren Wise from Peak Potential Adventures said the group of 13, including people from Coffs Harbour and Port Macquarie, started to head down from Everest Base Camp shortly before the quake hit because some members had altitude sickness.

"We ended up doing base camp and then started moving the team back lower below the 5,000-metre mark because having multiple days at altitude wasn't necessarily a safe option," Mr Wise said.

He said the team which trekked to the Everest Base Camp to celebrate the Centenary of Anzac Day, initially was not aware of how strong the earthquake was.

"They'd seen a little bit of movement, some of the landscape had moved, but yeah they weren't quite well aware of the extent of what had happened further up through Everest Base Camp plus Kathmandu at that time."

Mr Wise said families at home will need to be patient as it will take quite some time to get flights out of Nepal.

"They're at Namche Bazaar at the moment, it's the largest village so the team will be holding up there today," Mr Wise said.

"The plan was to try and get them down to Lukla as quickly as we could, to the airport to get them back to Kathmandu, but the weather's been pretty poor so there's been no flights out of Lukla at this stage."

NSW South Coast woman 'nearly didn't make it home'

Meanwhile, an Australian survivor of the Nepalese earthquake who has just arrived at Sydney Airport says she nearly didn't make it home.

Nicky Cannon from the NSW South Coast called into ABC Illawarra today to let her family and friends know she is that she is safe and well.

Ms Cannon said she was on the tarmac waiting to fly out when another earthquake struck, but the plane took off anyway.

"It was the longest half hour of my life, they had to check the runway to make sure it was safe to fly and luckily my plane took off but many people didn't get on that plane and I don't know if the airport reopened," she said.

Ms Cannon from the Jervis Bay area was on a business trip to Nepal when the quake struck.

She said the ground started to shake as the aftershocks hit when she was sitting on the plane, waiting to take off.

"My immediate response was to get off the plane but then someone very logically said that planes are built to withstand turbulence so we should stay on the plane," Ms Cannon said.

"Pretty much people were running onto the tarmac and evacuating onto the tarmac."

Mother unable to make contact with daughter living in Nepal

The mother of a woman who has lived in Nepal for over a decade has not made contact with her since the aftershocks struck yesterday.

Caroline Davis from Berry on the NSW South Coast said her daughter, Charlotte Davis, 45, had spent the last 12 to 15 years studying traditional thangka painting in the Shechan monastery on the outskirts of Kathmandu.

I'm trying to keep positive, I'm trying to keep breathing and remember about impermanence. Caroline Davis, mother of Charlotte Davis.

Charlotte was able to text her mother at about 6.15am(AEDT) after the earthquake first hit.

"Earlier in the day, before I'd heard about the earthquake, she got in touch with me at about 6:15 in the morning, so she'd been through the earthquake," Mrs Davis said.

She told her mother: "I'm fine, we've had a massive earthquake, but it was very scary, but we're downstairs [in the art school]."

Charlotte was able to call her mother about six hours later to tell her she was fine and ask her to register her with DFAT.

Caroline Davis said he had not heard anything since that phone call.

"And so nothing since then, and I keep hearing about aftershocks and I see the terrible, terrible television pictures. I'm very worried for Nepal," she said.

She said she hoped the lack of posts on Charlotte's Facebook page from friends might mean that lines of communications are down and so that was the reason she had been unable to make contact.

"I'm trying to keep positive, I'm trying to keep breathing and remember about impermanence," she said.

"I saw on her website that she wrote about that in 2011 when there was a last earthquake tremor.

"She was over there.. and she said, 'I guess this is a reminder of impermanence'."

Topics: earthquake, nepal, sydney-2000, wollongong-2500, port-macquarie-2444, coffs-harbour-2450

First posted
</text>