<url>
http://www.evartha.in/english/2015/04/27/nepal-tragedy-death-toll-rises-to-over-3200.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal tragedy; death toll rises to over 3,200 • Evartha English
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu: The toll in the massive earthquake that devastated Nepal rose to over 3200 on Sunday, the government said.

According to the police headquarters, as many as 777 people were killed in the capital Kathmandu alone, while 224 were killed in Bhaktapur.

The ministry of home affairs said 5,936 people were injured, according to reports received till 8.30 p.m. on Sunday.

A total of 11 districts were hit, of which the worst-affected were Kathmandu, Sindhupalchowk, Lalitpur, Gorkha and Bhaktapur.

The death toll in the three Kathmandu Valley districts — Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bhaktapur — was 1,152 and 1,278 elsewhere.

The government said search and rescue operations were continuing and the toll may rise further.

Meanwhile, 22 bodies were recovered from the Mount Everest base camp after avalanches hit the slopes of the world’s highest peak, the tourism ministry said on Sunday.

The bodies have been brought back to Kathmandu. Avalanches in Everest had killed 13 people in April 2014.

At least 217 tourists have been reported missing, the ministry said.

As many as 32 people were rescued from the base camp and airlifted to Kathmandu, while 29 were admitted to a hospital in Lukla.

An Indian Army Everest Expedition team was training at the Base Camp at Everest when a massive temblor hit Nepal on Saturday, triggering an avalanche that buried their equipment. The Indian Army team is safe and has helped pull out the bodies of 19 foreign climbers from the Everest camp.

The team also brought to safety 61 injured people.

The medical officer accompanying the army expedition has treated a number of injured international mountaineers besides the 61 injured climbers.

The team also provided considerable medicines and rations from their own resources to help the other climbers.

Six helicopters were sent to the avalanche-hit area on Saturday, but only two could operate because of inclement weather.

‘Indian Army expedition team continues to assist in rescue operations,’ the ministry of defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar tweeted.

Tulsi Prasad Gautam, executive director of Nepal’s department of tourism, told Xinhua that a few of the injured climbers were being treated in Pheriche village near Lukla.

Other climbers were on their way down from the base camp, Gautam said.

Saturday’s earthquake, measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale, killed over 2,500 people and left 5,850 injured. The temblor had its epicentre in Lamjung district, around 75 km northwest of Kathmandu.

It also triggered a series of avalanches which hit Mount Everest base camp.
</text>