<url>
http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/brooklyn-men-backpacking-everest-article-1.2200421
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Brooklyn men backpacking near Everest say they're OK
</headline>

<text>
A Brooklyn backpacker and his friend who went missing near Mount Everest after a massive earthquake hit the area are alive and well.

Danny Cole, 39, a father of four from Crown Heights, and Mendy Losh, 38, originally from Crown Heights and now living in Los Angeles, are hunkering down in a tea house in the town of Lukla.

“The whole glacier started swaying and causing many boulders to fall off the glacier wall,” Cole told the Daily News Monday. “We managed to take cover behind a large boulder.”

PHOTOS- NEPALESE PRAY FOR VICTIMS OF EARTHQUAKE

The friends were on a hiking trail that goes up to the Everest base camp when the 7.8-magnitutde quake that killed more than 4,000 people hit.

After the earthquake, the men and their Sherpa guide continued trekking across the Cho La Pass, which links the villages of Dzongla and Thagnak.

“In hindsight, that was a pretty dangerous thing to do,” Cole said. “But we were still unaware of the magnitude of what happened.”

During the hike, the men ran into other backpackers who gave them some information.

They reached a rest area with limited cell service early Monday morning.

Scenes from Nepal after earthquake

“The first thing I did was text my wife, which was the hardest part of not having contact,” Cole said. “I knew she would be worried sick. So once I was able to do that I felt much better. Just being in touch is amazing.”

Their Brooklyn families are ecstatic.

"Our lives were turned upside down yesterday," said Losh's brother-in-law Chaim Kay. "Thankfully we got the great news and everyone is on Cloud 9."

Cole’s wife got a text from her husband at 1:30 a.m. Monday morning.

“It was pretty emotional,” said Elkie Cole, 37. “[He texted] that's he's safe and ok. He has food. He's in good shape.”

Losh’s friend in California was also happy to hear he was ok.

“We were really, really worried about him,” said Devin Dugan, the owner of ImprovCity in Orange County, Calif., where Losh is a performer.

“He’d be the first person I’d run to in a time of crisis. He’s very level-headed, and he’s good at reacting and thinking quickly on feet. You have to be to do improv comedy,” he said.

Mendy Losh (l.) and Danny Cole (r.) are alive and well, hunkered down in a Nepal tea house after the massive earthquake triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest — to the joy of their Brooklyn families. (HANDOUT) Zevi Steinhauser (l.) says pals Losh (c.) and Cole (r.) were having trouble finding ways to communicate, and that they had no idea of the mass devastation until he texted them a Daily News story. (HANDOUT)

Losh and Cole are now trying to figure out a way to descend down and come home.

“We are currently situated very close to the Everest base camp and have been watching rescue helicopters go back and forth all day,” Cole said. “We hope to get a helicopter evacuation in the morning as fears of aftershock are still possible.”

Brooklyn filmmaker Michael Churton, 38, also survived the avalanche at the mountain’s base.

“It was like 4,000 feet of snow just kind of coming and there's nowhere to run,” Churton told Reuters.

Not everyone was as fortunate.

Two of the four American mountain climbers killed by the devastating Nepalese earthquake were identified Monday by the State Department.

Thomas Taplin, 61, and Vinh Truong were at a Mount Everest base camp when they died, spokesman Jeff Rathke said.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.

With Nancy Dillon
</text>