<url>
http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/fears-for-australians-missing-after-nepal-earthquake/story-fni6uok5-1227321765429?nk=a991a04be51e2789135a78169bc59587
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: fears for missing Australians
</headline>

<text>
AS Aussie actor Hugh Sheridan heads to Nepal to find his Adelaide-based brother, another SA man has told of the panic which swept through the main airport as the deadly earthquake struck.

More than 830 Australians have been confirmed safe but authorities are trying to contact hundreds of others missing after more than 3200 people were killed in a massive earthquake in Nepal.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said authorities have taken calls from more than 1250 families and friends of missing Australians in the country and are trying to get in touch with all of them.

An Australian, however, is reportedly among 19 people killed at Mount Everest’s base camp in a quake-triggered avalanche.

Worried family and friends have turned to social media to find their loved ones, including Sheridan, whose brother is missing.

The actor lives in Los Angeles but most of his family is based in Adelaide. Sheridan has hired a helicopter and plans to search the area around Everest base camp with a small crew, including a doctor.

media_camera Zachary and Hugh Sheridan. Zachary was climbing Mt Everest when the earthquake hit.

“Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest,” Sheridan tweeted yesterday.

“I’m going to try and get to Nepal, fly out tonight and pray the runway opens again,” he said yesterday. “I’m so worried about him.”

This morning, he updated his progress on Instagram:

HUGH SHERIDAN INSTAGRAM POST

“I'm on my way to Nepal now and will head toward base camp to try and find Zachary.

“I will be with a small crew helping with a chopper, a dr and we will have a satellite phone available for any Australian there who needs to reach home and tell their loved ones they're ok, I know so many of us are still waiting to hear but communication is down. Stay positive everyone, I feel optimistic that he is alive and stuck.

“I know that the news have been eager to talk to my mum but it would be respectful to leave her alone at this time. My heart goes out to every family who is still waiting to hear, I can’t imagine how they feel at Mt Everest. I’m looking forward to seeing my little brother and getting him out safely.

“This was the last picture he sent me, he sure captured her beauty.”

Zachary Sheridan, 20, last made contact with his family on April 22 at Namche Bazar, which is described as the gateway to Everest.

His elder brother Will said Zachary was trekking with a guide when the quake struck.

He said a friend of the family had spoken to someone in the region who told them there were no reported deaths in the area below base camp, where Zachary was thought to be.

Phone lines are understood to be down in the area.

“My feeling is that he is fine and he is with a guide, but the trekking company can’t contact them,” Will said.

Zachary has just finished an exchange program at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and is travelling through Asia on his way home.

Chaos and panic in Kathmandu airport

Meanwhile, an man has told of the panic that swept through Nepal’s main airport as the deadly earthquake struck at the weekend.

Stefan Parente and girlfriend Alice were preparing to board their flight home after 10 days hiking in Nepal when the huge quake hit around lunchtime Saturday.

“We had just had our ticket ripped so we were just walking down the walkway onto the tarmac, we’d taken about three steps and then everything started shaking really violently and threw us into the wall,” Mr Parente said.

“Then we took a second to gather our thoughts and there were tiles falling from the roof and we could see the ground moving and the tiles buckling on the floor.”

Mr Parente, 27, said panic set in as terrified commuters tried to escape the airport building.

“There were people falling over and pushing each other out of the way, it got pretty hysterical for a bit there but we were really lucky we were close to an exit,” he said.

“It felt like 15-20 minutes when it was shaking but apparently it only lasted a minute and a half, it was really surreal to think that you are in an earthquake.”

Mr Parente and his partner were able to board another plane out of Kathmandu several hours later, but did not realise the magnitude of the devastation until they landed in Malaysia.

“We weren’t told anything and were just speculating about how big this earthquake was, we didn’t have any phone reception or internet,” he said.

“We had no basis of comparison whether this was a five or six on the Richter scale, so I didn’t know what to believe but getting to Kuala Lumpur and seeing the devastation was pretty gut-wrenching.”

Mr Parente, who arrived home today, said he feared for the safety of Nepalese locals and fellow travellers who remained behind.

“We were just extremely lucky, it’s almost a feeling of guilt about why we were the lucky ones to get out when we did when there are so many thousands of people stranded there without shelter,” he said.

“It’s really scary, especially considering that people we were hiking with and staying with who were continuing on longer than us, many of those people are unaccounted for.”

Mr Parente urged South Australians to donate to the rescue and clean-up effort.

“It’s something that I am definitely going to be doing, the Nepalese people are just the nicest people that I’ve ever had anything to do with and if there is anyone who doesn’t deserve this it’s them,” he said.

Another Adelaide man, Jamie Nikou, was registered as missing in the earthquake zone but called home this afternoon to say he was safe.

media_camera Jamie Nikou

The 23-year-old, from Fulham Gardens, flew to Nepal early last month and was taking part in a spiritual healing course near Kathmandu.

Jamie’s father Con Nikou said the family had not heard from his son for 11 days, until the phone rang yesterday afternoon.

“He’s OK — we’re just so relieved,” Mr Nikou told The Advertiser.

media_camera Roads and buildings damaged by the massive earthquake. Pic: AFP

“We’ve been up all night, we’ve had the (television) news running — there’s nothing more relieving than to hear his voice.”

Mr Nikou said his son took the first opportunity he could to call using a mobile phone with a Nepalese SIM card.

“He was right in the middle of it all,” he said. “He was just one of the lucky ones. He actually came out of it without a scratch.

“Our hearts go out to the people who are still missing. I know there’s an awful lot of Australians who haven’t been accounted for.”

Mr Nikou said his son described “hectic” scenes of destruction and buildings falling around him.

“He watched a lot of them come down,” he said. “He said it’s pretty much just devastation in every direction you look.

“There’s nothing that doesn’t looked damaged somehow — roads, buildings, houses, monuments.”

Mr Nikou said Jamie planned to stay on in Nepal for a few days to help with the recovery effort but still planned to continue his journey to Tibet and India before returning home.

media_camera Nepalese residents walk beside buildings severely damaged by the earthquake at Kathmandu. Pics AFP

Mother Deb Williams’s Brisbane-based son Jai was due to be at Mount Everest base camp on Saturday with his friend Ben Flanders.

After a nervous wait she was greeted with the news she had been waiting for.

“The boys are safe,” she posted on Facebook.

West Australian Ballantyne Paige Forder contacted her family on Sunday after helping move the orphanage where she worked to a field.

Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted on Sunday: “My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety”.

Other families are still waiting for information on their loved ones.

Mitch Graves is at home in Sydney waiting for news on the fate of his 24-year-old brother Matthew Graves, who was travelling through Pokhara.

“It’s a bit of a struggle trying to communicate to everyone. It is a waiting game at the moment,” he said.

media_camera Nepalese people walk past collapsed buildings at Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu. Picture: AFP Photo

Nepal’s worst earthquake in 80 years

The earthquake’s epicentre was about 80km northwest of Kathmandu and it is the worst to hit the area in 80 years, World Vision Australia chief Tim Costello said.

“This is a huge disaster,” he said on Sunday.

“As the full extent of this enormous tragedy emerges, every minute counts. We must act immediately to save lives and help those who are suffering.”

About 200 World Vision staff in Nepal are dispatching emergency supplies, he said.

Red Cross workers on the scene are administering first aid, organising blood supplies for medical centres and providing food, shelter and water.

“It’s now a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble, help the injured and support the survivors,” Australian Red Cross’s Peter Walton said.

“We are very concerned for the safety and wellbeing of thousands of people in Nepal and across the region.”

A team from the Fred Hollows Foundation with Australian, Vietnamese, Bangladeshi and Pakistani members was in Nepal when the earthquake struck but all have been confirmed safe.

media_camera South Base Camp in Nepal: The earthquake also caused a deadly avalanche at Mount Everest.

media_camera An avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the massive earthquake. Picture: AP Photo

A number of Australians were caught up in the disaster.

On Sunday, there had also been concerns about 18-year-old Australian Alyssa Azar who is in Nepal trying to become the first Aussie to climb the peak.

A message posted to Alyssa Azar’s Facebook page said the 18-year-old was on the mountain at the time aiming to become the youngest Aussie to climb the mountain.

“Alyssa has contacted us and let us know that she was out climbing when this happened but is back at Base Camp now safe and sound,” the post reads. “She is feeling good and waiting to see what results come from this.”

Australian journalist Siobhan Heanue who was travelling in Nepal described the quake as “terrifying” forcing hundreds of tourists to run for their lives as buildings collapsed.

media_camera Rescue ... Emergency rescue workers find a survivor in the debris of Dharara tower after it collapsed.

People who are unable to contact family and friends in Nepal should call the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 6261-3305 or 1300 555 135.

There had also been concerns about 18-year-old Australian Alyssa Azar who is in Nepal trying to become the first Aussie to climb the peak.

Originally published as Star flies to Nepal to find SA brother; others tell of escape
</text>