<url>
http://www.thetibetpost.com/en/news/exile/4526-tibetan-administration-expresses-grief-shock-over-nepal-quake
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Tibetan administration expresses grief, shock over Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
Dharamshala – Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) has expressed its deep shock and sadness at the extensive damages to property and loss of life caused by the 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit the Himalayan region of Nepal, India, Tibet and Bangladesh on Saturday.

In an emergency meeting of the Tibetan cabinet held on Sunday, the CTA has expressed its deep shock and sadness at the horrific devastation to life and property caused by the massive magnitude earthquake that shook the Himalayan regions.

In a statement, the CTA said it "will also donate a sum of NPR 20 Lacs to the government of Nepal as a token of contribution from the Central Tibetan Administration towards its rescue and relief efforts in the country."

The cabinet said it has instructed its Representatives abroad and the Settlement Officers to collect donations from their respective areas towards relief efforts in Nepal."

"The Kashag further instructed all Tibetan settlements, monasteries and communities in Nepal to actively engage in rescue and relief efforts in their localities," the statement reads.

While expressing his grief and sadness, Sikyong Dr Lobsang Sangay said, "At this dark and painful time, words fail to convey how deeply we feel for the people affected in Nepal, Tibet and India."

"On behalf of the Central Tibetan Administration and the entire Tibetan people, I express my profound sympathies and condolences to those who have lost their loved ones and whose lives have been severely devastated by this horrific natural calamity."

"Our sincere prayers are with the people affected by the earthquake and the governments at this time of national tragedy," he said.

A special prayer service was held on monday evening at the main temple in Dharamshala, to mourn those who lost their lives in the Nepal tragedy.

More than 3,900 people have been killed so far across Nepal and 6,833 people were injured in the 7.8-magnitude earthquake occurred on Saturday, according to the Home Ministry of Nepal on Monday.

According to reports, 3,700 people were killed in Nepal, at least 70 in India, 20 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese nationals reportedly died at the Nepal-Tibet border.

Nepalese officials Monday said the death toll had risen to 3,617 people. That does not include the 22 people killed in the avalanche on Mount Everest.

At least 20 were killed and 58 injured in Tibet, after a powerful earthquake struck neighboring Nepal on Saturday. "Some 24,800 people in Shigaze City have been relocated," the state-run Xinhua news agency reported on Sunday quoting local authorities.

Major historic monuments in the Nepalese capital have been destroyed in the earthquake. These include a nine-storey tower, temples and some parts of what was once a royal palace, all listed as Unesco world heritage sites, officials have said.

Several buildings in Patan's 3rd Century square were destroyed. The Buddhist temple complex at Swayambhunath, founded in the 5th Century, has also been damaged.

There have been reports that the iconic central stupa, with its gazing eyes of the Buddha and Pashupatinath Hindu temple site were damaged too.

After the earthquake struck, frightened residents came out into the streets. Mobile phones and other communications have been disrupted.

The US Geological Survey said the quake hit at 11:56am local time (06:11 GMT). It initially reported a magnitude 7.7 before revising the calculation to 7.5 and later upgraded to 7.9.
</text>