<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-27/nepal-earthquake-two-tasmanians-still-listed-as-missing/6423560
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: At least two Tasmanians still listed as missing
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: At least two Tasmanians still listed as missing

Updated

Fears are held for two Tasmanians missing in Nepal after a massive earthquake that has claimed more than 3,200 lives so far.

The Tasmanians still believed to be missing are Julien Vincent Tempone, 24, from Launceston, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29.

The International Red Cross is maintaining an online register of names of people reported missing.

The family of Adam Robert Cleaver, 31, of Devonport, who had been listed as missing, posted a message on social media saying he and his partner were alive and well but the information had not been officially verified.

Ms Davson-Galle worked with the Red Cross assisting asylum seekers before going to Nepal.

She had continued her work there, helping Bhutanese refugees.

According to the Red Cross website, she last made contact in Pokhara more than two weeks ago.

The Tasmanian Asylum Seeker Support (TASS) Facebook group posted their concern for her welfare, saying: "Dear Friends, TASS is anxiously waiting to hear about the safety of our wonderful supporter from Red Cross Jenny Davson-Galle who is posted as missing in the earthquake in Nepal. Our thoughts and prayers are with you."

A friend of Ms Davson-Galle said he held grave fears for her wellbeing.

Alphonse Mulumba worked closely with Ms Davson-Galle to help asylum seekers at Hobart's Pontville Detention Centre.

He said despite desperate posts from concerned family and friends on Ms Davson-Galle's social media account nobody had heard from her.

"We are all very concerned," Mr Mulumba said.

"This morning I got in touch with I don't know how many friends that know Jenny, just to ask if someone got some news.

"It [was] around 1:00am last night that I was so desperate and crying on my bed that I had to put that post on Facebook."

Hiker unsure about descent from Himalayas

Tasmanian hiker Eliza Freeman, initially feared missing after the Nepal earthquake, has contacted her family to say she is safe but says she is uncertain how she and a group of travel companions will get down off the Himalayas safely.

Ms Freeman, 22, had to abandon her trek to Annapurna Base Camp four days into the trip because of major landslides and avalanches triggered by Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake.

She called her family yesterday afternoon to tell them she was safe, her sister Rachel Freeman said, but that it could be hard for her to descend the mountain that she was hiking on.

"She's in a place called Bamboo and she's at quite a high altitude and she's found a sort motley crew of other travellers," Rachel said.

"They're not sure how they're going to get back down and make it back to civilisation because there's been quite a few landslides."

Tasmanians in a plane on runway as aftershock strikes

Tasmanian woman Maree Matic, from Burnie, was in Kathmandu airport when the earthquake hit.

She was preparing to fly home with her 20-year-old daughter after both spent nine days volunteering in the country's west.

They had been with several other Tasmanians helping to build schools in impoverished areas.

"I looked around and I could see the locals just running back down the elevator and then I just sang out to everyone "run," she said.

"It was just mayhem, people just jumping over things.

"You were just running for your life really not knowing if the building was going to fall in."

Ms Matic said the plane was "bouncing".

"You could see the waves going up and down the wings."

"We had a full circle of Kathmandu and as you scanned across all those buildings, you could actually see them crumble below your eyes."

We had a full circle of Kathmandu and as you scanned across all those buildings, you could actually see them crumble below your eyes. Maree Matic, volunteer in Nepal

Burnie businessmen James Simpson's wife, Karena, was with Ms Matic's group.

He said his wife was almost trampled when people ran out of the airport building and onto the tarmac.

"They all ran out to the door and Karena thought the roof was going to come down, which is a pretty understandable reaction," Mr Simpson said.

The group flew out to Bangkok last night, but not before experiencing an aftershock.

"They got on one of the first planes out, they were so lucky, but they very nearly didn't leave on that too," he said.

"When the big aftershock hit, that 6.7, they were all sitting on the plane on the tarmac and it just rocked around like nothing else, so they were sitting there again and thought they might have been stuck again."

Nepalese community in Tasmania planning vigils

Vigils are being organised by members of the Nepalese community in Tasmania.

Nepalese students at the University of Tasmania are preparing will hold a vigil in Hobart on Wednesday night.

PhD student Aarati Khanal said one Nepalese student had flown home after finding out his father had been killed.

"Lost his family and his mother is injured so he flew back yesterday and that was the hardest thing I've ever done, I had to call him," she said.

The university has about 500 Nepalese students.

Many Nepalese were desperately trying to make contact with family members back home.

Among them nursing student Prava Khadka who was still trying to contact her husband who lived near Kathmandu.

She said a group of Nepalese health students wanted to return home to volunteer with rescue efforts.

"Most people were thinking to go back to Nepal," Ms Khadka said.

"They want to see their family safe."

The Nepali Society of Tasmania is organising a candlelight vigil in Hobart to support those affected by the earthquake disaster and to raise money.

Pradip Dhungana said many in his community were struggling.

"Really, it's very hard, we can't express our emotions at this stage right now," he said.

The vigil has been planned for Friday.

Topics: earthquake, missing-person, tas

First posted
</text>