<url>
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/article/article_xinhua.aspx?id=278742
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Spotlight: Fears linger in Nepal as int'l aid pours in
</headline>

<text>
Home » Latest News

KATHMANDU, April 27 (Xinhua) -- As of Monday, death toll from Saturday's strong quake in Nepal has climbed to 3,351, and 6,833 others were injured.

The quake also caused 66 lives in India and at least 20 in China's Tibet Autonomous Region.

The 7.9-magnitude tremor, the country's worst in eight decades, jolted central, western, mid-western and far-western parts of Nepal. It caused tremendous damage in capital Kathmandu, including severe damage of the historic buildings in the Kathmandu Valley, a UNESCO World Heritage site.

The massive disaster and several big aftershocks have generated fear and anxiety in the impoverished country, which suffers a lack of basic supplies. The international community has been sending out rescue teams and humanitarian aid to Nepal.

MULTIPLE AFTERSHOCKS

The powerful earthquake was followed by at least 15 big aftershocks, including a 6.7-magnitude one on Sunday afternoon.

In Kathmandu, thousands of people had spent the night on pavements, in parks and open fields in chilly temperatures, too afraid to return to their ramshackle homes.

Aftershocks are also terrifying to hundreds of foreign and Nepalese climbers who remained trapped in the Himalayas, where at least 17 people have been killed after a huge avalanche triggered by the earthquake swept a base camp.

Some aid flights were unable to land as Kathmandu's main airport was closed several times on Sunday as a result of aftershocks. Some aid vehicles traveled over land from Indian to Pokhara, a Nepalese city 80 km from the epicenter.

SUPPLY SHORTAGES

Two days after the massive quake, the Nepalese authorities have been grappling with the rescue work, with lack of food, water and medical supplies.

Thousands of desperate people crowded in tents here, many with empty stomach. The few stores that were open had nearly nothing on their shelves.

Many people who were wounded or ill had to lay in open field as the city's hospitals were to capacity.

Nepal has about two physicians and 50 hospital beds for every 10,000 people, according to a 2011 World Health Organization report.

The UN Children's Fund said Sunday that nearly 1 million children in areas affected by the earthquake were in urgent need of humanitarian assistance.

The United Nations warned in a report that diarrhea was already a growing problem and a measles outbreak was feared with a shortage of vaccines.

INTERNATIONAL RESCUE

Nepalese authorities said rescue operations are underway but hampered by damaged roads, ineffective communication lines and landslides, and are slow in remote areas due to a lack of equipment.

More than a dozen countries have sent rescue teams and humanitarian aid.

A 62-strong Chinese team arrived in Nepal on Sunday. "We worked at the scene continuously for a day and night, and forget today (Monday) is the birthday of China's International Rescue Team," said deputy chief Qu Guosheng, who was in Nepal last month training local rescue teams.

The Chinese government has decided to provide aid worth 20 million yuan (3.3 million U.S. dollars), including tents, blankets and generators.

A U.S. military plane departed Sunday morning for Nepal carrying 70 personnel, including a U.S. Agency for International Development disaster assistance response team, an urban search and rescue team and 45 tons of cargo. A 57-person task force of firefighters from California was also sent to Nepal on Sunday. The United States is also dispatching an initial aid of 1 million U.S. dollars for the disaster.

A number of other countries have also pledged to send rescue teams, including Japan, France, Australia, Israel, Pakistan, Singapore and South Korea.
</text>