<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/nelson-mail/news/68067652/nelson-woman-in-nepal-has-flashbacks-to-christchurch-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nelson woman in Nepal has flashbacks to Christchurch earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Nelson woman in Nepal has flashbacks to Christchurch earthquake

Omar Havana Flowers are left by survivors on top of debris from a collapsed building in Kathmandu, Nepal.

Dulkara Martig had flashbacks of the Christchurch quakes as she ran for safety during Nepal's devastating earthquake.

Martig, who is from Nelson, is in Nepal with a group of 12 teenage girls, leading them on a trek. They had all experienced the 2011 Christchurch quake and were left "shaken" and "vulnerable" after Friday's 7.8 earthquake. They were otherwise safe and all accounted for.

The Red Cross lists seven women and 10 men born in New Zealand in Nepal as not heard from on its site. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said more than 180 New Zealanders are accounted for.

Alden Williams Nelson woman Dulkara Martig is currently in Nepal, working with students from Christchurch.

The former Nelson College for Girls student has worked as a teacher and an adventure guide.

She had been working for World Challenge, which takes secondary school students to developing countries. The group were in central Pokhara and had just returned to town after a volunteer project at a rural school in the area and a 12 day trek around the Annapurna Base Camp area.

READ MORE:

* Strong 6.7 aftershock rocks Nepal

* St Margaret's College students 'all fine'

* Local Nepalese community distraught over earthquake

Martig, the students and two secondary school teachers had all been through the Canterbury earthquakes, and this was the first time the students had been overseas without their parents.

Martig was with three of the teenagers in a craft shop, passing time before they met the rest of the group at a cafe when the earth started to shake.

"At first we thought it was just a truck rattling past, because the buildings are slightly dodgy anyway and it's normal for them to shake a bit, but we quickly realised it was going on for too long and I immediately had flashbacks to the Canterbury quakes, the ground was moving beneath us in the same sort of way."

Martig said everyone ran into the middle of the street: "many people were hugging, crying, yelling out, and desperately trying to phone relatives to check they were safe. We managed to have some brief conversations with locals immediately after the quake and they said they were very afraid and it was the biggest earthquake they'd ever felt."

"It brought back heaps of emotions," she said.

"Everybody was quite distressed as we'd all been through the Canterbury earthquakes and after such a long shake we wondered what was coming next or how long the aftershocks would go on for."

The four rushed back to the hotel and found everyone else in their group was safe.

"The following few hours felt quite surreal and there were a number of larger aftershocks, just like in Christchurch. We headed to an open courtyard area, sheltered from large buildings and power lines."

Martig said she had "never felt more responsible" in her life during the quake, dealing with the students.

"Ironically we had just been speaking to some Nepali primary school children about earthquakes a few hours before the quake hit."

The students had asked the Nepali children how common earthquakes were, and were told they had them all the time.

The group were due to head back to New Zealand on April 29 but were currently "lying low" before they made any plans.

St Margaret's College principal Gillian Simpson, where the students in Nepal were from, had been in "constant contact" with them after she was able to make phone contact with the four staff members and 26 students, and confirm they were all "fine" as news broke of the devastating earthquake.

QUAKE ON 'BUCKET LIST TRIP'

Myra Marwick said her husband Rodger Marwick and his friend Joe Tiller were in Nepal on a "bucket list trip" trekking.

They were on their way to the base camp when the earthquake struck. She said they had limited communication but were currently safe, though she was concerned about the aftershocks.

She believed the pair would be "traumatised" over what they had experienced.

Marwick had been trying to contact their insurance company as well as organise a way out of Nepal for them. She was looking at getting them into India but was struggling with getting visas.

There was also a possibility they would be helicoptered out of Lukla.

She said there was a fear of flooding in the area as well.

"There are so many variables and unknowns," she said. "The psychological stress is huge."

Nelson charity First Steps Himalaya has launched an urgent appeal for help.

Nepalese director Durga Aran said villages in Nepal were in ruins, including his own in Jitpur.

"We have heard there are fatalities in our project village of Sangachok. There is widespread destruction over the whole district."

The charity provides early years education for rural Nepali children, it was raising funds to go directly to its project villages. It worked in 22 villages in Nepal.

Aran said village houses were made of stone and mud and would not have withstood the earthquake.

His family in Nepal had survived but he was waiting to hear from friends.

He was in Nepal a week ago working in the project village helping to build a teacher training centre, in the rural Sindhupachok district. The centre was made from earth-bag building materials, and built by international volunteers. It was reported to be the only building still standing in the district.

Nelson Himalaya Design owner Jayashrii McFadgen had been calling friends in Nepal since the quake.

"People are terrified, most people are too scared to go back into their houses, they are sleeping outside in cars or tents. There's no access or very little to food and water."

She had made contact with 24 people over there and the resounding request was that people pray for them.

"Most of them are very spiritual and God-loving folk. Most of them are asking us to pray."

McFadgen urged people to dig deep and donate to charity organisations. She said Sir Edmond Hillary's Himalayan Trust did good work and already had people on the ground working.

How you can help

Donate to First Step Himalaya

Himalayan Trust: himalayantrust.org/

World Vision's Nepal earthquake appeal worldvision.org.nz

Red Cross redcross.org.nz/donate/nepal-earthquake-appeal

- Stuff
</text>