<url>
http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/573131/Race-rescue-quake-Britons-tremor-horror-Everest-Nepal-death-toll-hits-2500
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Quake teen 'emotionally trashed' after Everest rescue as search for 90 Brits continues
</headline>

<text>
AFP•GETTY Seven Britons are stranded on Everest

Alex Staniforth, 19, from Chester, was at Camp 1 on the world's highest peak when the devastating quake hit, followed by yesterday's large aftershock which has hampered rescue efforts. This comes as rescuers race against time to save six more Britons trapped 19,500ft up Mount Everest by deadly earthquakes in Nepal. Dozens of Britons are feared to be among more than 3,300 people killed by a 7.9 magnitude quake, which devastated the Himalayan country on Saturday. Mr Staniforth was airlifted back to base camp this morning where he has joined other stranded climbers and is now waiting to be transferred to the capital, Khatmandu, to return to his family and friends in the UK. Nepal's mountaineering department said at least 18 people had been killed on the mountain and 61 injured in the avalanche, while there are said to be 90 Brits still missing. In a statement, Mr Staniforth's support team said he feels "extremely lucky to be alive." It read: "Alex was airlifted from Camp 1 back to Base Camp earlier this morning. His sleeping tent was destroyed by the avalanche and he feels extremely lucky to be alive. "Alex is completely devastated at the tragic loss of lives of so many people, many whom he classed as friends both around Everest Base Camp and in the region. "We are hoping that he can be airlifted to Kathmandu over the next 24 hours for his safe passage home to his family and friends." Earlier a tweet from his team in the UK said: "From Alex: "Evacuated to base camp. Emotionally trashed and all gear swept away. Very lucky to be alive, please let everyone know." NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: THE SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS CONTINUES

IG Pat McKnight and Alex Stantiforth (L-R)

The teenager's mother, Debbie Brooks, spoke of her relief. She said: "We are all very worried but very relieved that Alex is unhurt and now at Base Camp after being stranded at Camp 1 for two nights. "We just want to get him home now so we know he is safe. We are very sad for the families who have not been so lucky and our thoughts go out to the people of Nepal." Mr Staniforth said he is "incredibly shocked by the experience" but urged people to donate to the disaster fund. The young adventurer had been attempting to climb Mount Everest in honour of the Sherpas who were killed in last year's avalanche at Base Camp. James Grieves, 52, is part of a seven-strong climbing group of UK tourists stuck above the Khumbu Icefall – a treacherous stretch of Everest's ascent - after an avalanche hit the mountain's base camp. Speaking via satellite phone from Camp 1, Mr Grieves, from Kinross in Scotland, spoke of the "race against time to get off the mountain." Mr Grieves, who is part of an ascent team led by British guide Dan Mazur, 54, told The Sun: "Everyone is apprehensive about what's happening and what will happen in the next 24 hours. "We have a few days of food and drink left. Our tents have all been lost and we have around 18 dead bodies at the base camp." Yesterday, as a 6.9 magnitude aftershock brought more terror to survivors, a desperate mission was launched to rescue others stranded on the slopes of the world’s highest mountain. But Mr Grieves said bad weather has meant rescuers are "struggling" to help, while predicting 120 people are still trapped and waiting on Everest. NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: THE SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS IN PICTURES

IG James Grieve

He added:"Rescue teams are struggling to get us help due to the weather and the next few days forecasts are not great. "There is a lot of confusion in the camp and there are about 120 of us here waiting to be rescued. "We are in a race against time to get off of the mountain." Eighteen climbers from different nations perished on Saturday as an avalanche hit Everest’s base camp. It is believed that 1,000 people, including 400 foreigners, were in the camp or on their way to the summit. With landslides blocking trails down the mountain, the fate of many climbers is unknown. However Mr Grieve estimated around 50 had been killed on Everest. Speaking of the aftershocks, he continued: "We have had two more aftershocks at camp. Avalanches are normal but these aftershocks are really worrying for us all." Although there are plans for 12 helicopters to be used to rescue climbers today, Mr Grieve said "the choppers are only taking two people at a time."

SWNS Dan Mazur

All we can hear is rocks cracking around us, but we can’t see them coming... It’s pretty eerie Tim Bradshaw, British Army Captain

And with forecasters predicting one metre of snowfall, Mr Grieve said it could be days before his group are rescued. He said: "If that happens the helicopters can't fly as the pilots won't be able to get down. There is a larger group than us with about 80 members and they take priority. "I think we'll have to wait until Wednesday before we can get on them." Mr Grieves said a US documentary maker had been killed. Mr Greives and Mr Mazur are also joined by fellow Brits including Alex Stantiforth, Ellis Stewart, Pat McKnight and newlywed couple, Alex and Sam Chappatte, both 28. Following the earthquake, Mr and Mrs Chappatte wrote on their blog: “The ground started shaking violently but before we could react Dan (Mazur, the expedition leader) was shouting ‘Get out of your tents, grab your ice axes!’ “We staggered out to see an avalanche coming straight at us... "We were able to get up and run to shelter behind some tents and anchor ourselves with our axes. “Our tents were only lightly covered so we dug them out and moved them into the middle of the valley.

IG Ellis Stewart

"There are about 30 of us here in Camp 1 and the same again in Camp 2. “No one knows how bad the damage to the Icefall route down is yet, but we have heard that our part of base camp has been flattened.” Captain Tim Bradshaw, leading a British Army team up the mountain, said yesterday’s aftershock felt fairly “violent”. He added: “All we can hear is rocks cracking around us, but we can’t see them coming... It’s pretty eerie.” Alex Gaven tweeted that parts of the base camp look like they have been hit by a “nuclear blast”, with “uncertainty high” for those waiting to descend to safety. India, China and Pakistan have all sent disaster response teams to Nepal and some injured climbers were evacuated by helicopter from base camp yesterday. Among those confirmed dead on Everest was US Google executive Dan Fredinburg, 33. In Kathmandu yesterday hundreds of bodies lined pavements and funeral pyres blazed in the streets. With hundreds still missing, rescuers clawed at debris with their bare hands as they searched for survivors. Some witnesses spoke of buildings, including historic monuments such as the Dharahara Tower “toppling over like a house of cards”. The death toll from the devastating earthquake soared past 3,300 today, with officials saying how much higher it would rise depended largely on the condition of vulnerable mountain villages that rescue workers were still struggling to reach two days after the disaster.

EXPRESS Map for Mount Everest crisis

The RAF is expected to deliver much-needed supplies and reinforcements to Nepal today as the rescue and relief effort continues. Last night Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said that he believed “several hundred” Britons were in Nepal and that some were “almost certainly” caught up in the earthquake. He said there had been no reports yet of Britons killed or injured but damage to communications infrastructure was making it difficult to contact people trekking in remote areas. He said: “British Embassy staff are on the ground and have provided practical help to around 200 British nationals. “Teams of consular staff have also been out scouring hospitals, hotels and areas popular with tourists looking for British nationals who may need assistance.” Sheffield-based travel firm Jagged Globe said it had yet to hear from several teams in Nepal, including Britons set to climb in the Himalayas. Darren Smith, 27, from South Queensferry, near Edinburgh, was last night still missing with his girlfriend Fiona Lamont, 26. Sam Bond, 28, from South Gloucestershire is also reported missing.

IG Honeymoon couple Alex and Sam Chappatte

Mr Smith’s sister Kerry said the last contact she had with her brother was while he was in Kathmandu. She believes the couple left to do the popular Annapurna Circuit trek. They were not with an organised group. Also listed as missing on Google’s Person Finder was Laura Wood, 23, from Huddersfield, West Yorks, who had been trekking in the Himalayas and was described by a friend as a “glowing lovely beautiful young girl often dressed in hippy type clothing”. But Tom Elphinstone, from Battersea, south London, and his girlfriend Zara Casey, both 26, who were hiking in Tansen near the capital, sent text messages to say they were safe. Brighton graduate Tara Bradshaw, 24, was also reported to be safe.

IG Dan Fredinburg is among the 18 climbers killed

The Foreign Office is advising Britons to stay in a safe place and follow advice from local officials. Britain has deployed an eightstrong team to provide urgent humanitarian support to Nepal, where most fatalities were reported. People also perished in India, Tibet, Bangladesh and on the Nepal-China border. Prime Minister David Cameron wrote on Twitter: “Shocking news about the earthquake in Nepal – the UK will do all we can to help those caught up in it.” NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: THE SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS CONTINUES

SWNS Sam Bond
</text>