<url>
http://www.straitstimes.com/the-big-story/nepal-quake/story/the-straits-times-archives-look-nepal-20150427
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
From The Straits Times Archives: A look at Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The Himalayan nation of Nepal is often perceived as remote, beautiful and serene.

On April 25, Nepal was shaken by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that has taken a terrible toll on its people. The death toll has passed 3,200.

We look at some of the stories about the country from The Straits Times Archives.

1. Google launches virtual tour of Nepal's Everest region

This story was first published in The Straits Times on March 12, 2015

Google's Street View captured cities and countries. But most ambitious is its virtual tour of Nepal's Everest region.

Teams travelled on foot and took more than 45,000 panoramic shots of remote eastern Himalayan villages.

Read more about the project here.

2. Trekking tragedy shakes Nepal's faith in shoestring tourism

This story was first published in The Straits Times on Oct 20, 2014

Nepal attracts thousands of adventure tourists who want to explore its gorgeous scenery. But many of these tourists are budget backpackers and many do not even bother with hiring trained guides.

On the heels of a deadly avalanche that has killed more than 30 hikers, the Nepalese government are questioning the wisdom of allowing so many budget travellers in the country.

Read more here.

3. Death toll rises to at least 21 in Himalayan snowstorm and avalances in Nepal: official

This story was first published in The Straits Times on Oct 16, 2014

Nepal was hit by the tail end of Cyclone Hudhud, which caused a snowstorm and avalanches. The worst hit area was the Annapurna Circuit, a popular hiking route.

Some 168 foreign tourists were registered to hike in the area and the authorities were trying to track the rest down.

Read more here.

4. India's PM Modi offers Nepal $1.25 billion loan in regional diplomacy push

This story was first published in The Straits Times on Aug 3, 2014

On a two-day visit to Nepal in 2014, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered Nepal concessional loans to help build power plants and roads.

The move was part of Mr Modi's outreach to India's regional neighbours, and his visit was the first bilateral visit to the country by an Indian prime minister in 17 years.

Read more here.

5. Thousands of Nepalese teenagers vie at annual Gurkha selection tests

This story was first published in The Straits Times on Dec 16, 2012

The Gurkhas, an elite military outfit, is one of Nepal's most famous exports.

About 100 are selected for the British Army and 60 for the Singapore Police Force every year, and thousands of aspiring Nepalese teenagers take part in the selection tests.

Reporter Chong Zi Liang was in Pokhara, Nepal to see what these teenagers do to qualify for the Gurkhas.
</text>