<url>
http://www.buenosairesherald.com/article/187834/unhcr-and-several-other-countries-send-help-to-nepal-
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
UNHCR, international community send help to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Monday, April 27, 2015 UNHCR, international community send help to Nepal

“Nepal has always been very generous in sheltering thousands of refugees for many years, especially in Bhutan, where 21,000 citizens arrived to escaping from persecution”, UNHCR authorities stated.

The first shipping contains 11,000 plastic rolls to protect from rain, which come in handy due to the heavy precipitations after the quake. Moreover, the humanitarian organization has also sent 4,000 solar flashligts to cope with the lack of electrical supply.

The UNHCR has confirmed sending a second shipping within the next few hours that will be distributed according to Nepal´s government needs.

Furthermore, UN´s World Food Programme (WPF) has indicated that they area planning a massive assistance operation with food that doesn´t need to be cooked. According to WPF, the shipping should be on their way to Katmandu tomorrow.

On the other hand, several countries from around the globe have also offered their assistance. India sent helicopters, medical supplies and members of its National Disaster Response Force. China sent a 60-strong emergency team. Pakistan's army said it was sending four C-130 aircraft with a 30-bed hospital, search and rescue teams and relief supplies.

A Pentagon spokesman said a U.S. military aircraft with 70 personnel left the United States yesterday and was due in Kathmandu today. Australia, Britain and New Zealand said they were sending specialist urban search-and-rescue teams to Kathmandu at Nepal's request.

Britain, which believes several hundred of its nationals are in Nepal, was also delivering supplies and medics.

However, there has been little sign of international assistance on the ground so far, with some aid flights prevented from landing by aftershocks that closed Kathmandu's airport several times yesterday.

Nepal has only 2.1 physicians and 50 hospital beds for every 10,000 people, according to a 2011 World Health Organization report.

High Representative and Vice-President Federica Mogherini, the EU Commissioner for Development Neven Mimica and the Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management Christos Stylianides have stated: "We are deeply saddened by the destruction and loss of life caused by the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal and parts of India. Our hearts go out to the Nepalese and Indian people and all the families affected by this tragedy.”

“We will look into how we can help Nepal to deal with the destroyed and damaged buildings and how to help its citizens. We are considering to provide Nepal with some budget support," they concluded.
</text>