<url>
http://www.baltic-course.com/eng/analytics/?doc=105479
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
One Estonian citizen is known to have died in the earthquake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
One Estonian citizen is known to have died in the earthquake in Nepal on Saturday, Estonian Foreign Ministry announced LETA.

Based on available information, the Foreign Ministry is aware of 30 citizens of Estonia currently in Nepal. The Ministry said that they have received confirmation that 25 people have escaped the natural disaster. They are still awaiting confirmation regarding four more people believed to be in Nepal. "We have received news of the death of one Estonian citizen following the earthquake in Nepal. The family of the deceased has been informed," the Ministry said.

The Foreign Ministry expresses its deepest condolences to the loved ones of the deceased. "I offer my heartfelt condolences to the family and loved ones of the Estonian who has died in the earthquake. This tragic natural disaster affects us all," the Foreign Minister said.

The Foreign Ministry will assist the relatives of the deceased in bringing the remains of the victim back to Estonia. It will also provide necessary assistance to the other Estonian citizens in leaving Nepal. The Estonian Honorary Consul of Nepal Nava Raj Dahal is actively assisting and has also met with some of the Estonian citizens who survived the disaster.

"The aftermath of the earthquake is disastrous for Nepal. The need for help is tremendous and we will provide any assistance it can. All manner of assistance is currently necessary and we will also provide assistance from the Estonian side," the Foreign Minister stated, adding that Estonia is ready to support Nepal with humanitarian assistance.

The Minister of the Interior Hanno Pevkur said that Estonia is assembling a rescue team and police team, who will be sent to the disaster area to help in the rescue. "The international community's assistance in the disaster area is vital and our quick response is crucial. We are preparing teams in collaboration with both rescuers and policemen to be ready to dispatch to the disaster area immediately in order to help," Pevkur noted.

There are 41 citizens of Latvia in Nepal, said the agency LETA press-secretary of Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) Ivars Lasis.



The MFA has information about 37 Latvians, who were not injured in the earthquake. With four subjects there is no contact at the moment.

According to the most recent information, over 2,000 people have lost their lives in the powerful earthquake in Nepal. The earthquake's epicentre was located 80 km north-west of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Approximately 2.5 million people live in the densely populated Kathmandu valley.
</text>