<url>
http://www.perthnow.com.au/news/western-australia/desperate-fears-for-west-australians-missing-in-nepal-earthquake-as-death-toll-soars/story-fnhocxo3-1227322865031?sv=8ea87d1880178f280525ac1f375c0ba5&nk=27eaee17c346070192c4827d94db3518
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Desperate fears for West Australians missing in Nepal earthquake as death toll soars
</headline>

<text>
DESPERATE WA families are flying to Nepal to try to reach loved ones missing in the Nepal earthquake disaster.

About 15 West Australians remain unaccounted for after the devastating quake which has killed as many as 3000 people.

About 200 members of Perth’s Nepalese community gathered at Kings Park overnight to hold a candlelight vigil for their devastated homeland.

Perth mother Nur Chamidah is one of the first WA parents heading to Nepal, having heard no word from her 18-year-old son, Jalada Wilson, who has been hiking in Langtang National Park with his Fremantle friends 19-year-old Raoul Poncin and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson.

“We are very worried about our son Jalada Wilson and his two mates Raoul Poncin and Rin Hutcheson from Perth, Australia,” Teny Wilson, Jalada’s stepmother wrote on Facebook.

media_camera Fremantle teenagers 18-year-old Jalada Wilson, 19-year-old Raoul Poncin and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson were believed to be hiking in Langtang National Park when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit.

“If you have seen them please contact us. We need to know they are ok.”

Jalada’s father, Ian Wilson, said it was a “deeply distressing time” for the family.

“Our main concern at this moment is to get word that Jalada and his friends Raoul and Rin are safe. We believe they are somewhere near the entrance to Langtang national park,” Mr Wilson said.

“One thing that should be emphasised, is that aside from taking down names, DFAT and the embassy haven’t done much else. There is now credible information of people, including Australian nationals, stuck in various areas, but nothing resembling a rescue effort appears to have been organised yet. This should be a top priority, as time is of the essence.”

Raoul’s father, Freddy Poncin, confirmed that Ms Chamidah was flying to Nepal.

“We have all been communicating and sharing whatever news we have,” Mr Poncin, who last heard from his son on April 17, said.

“Jalada’s mother was able to get last-minute tickets to fly to Nepal and will be going to their last check-in point. We are hoping she’ll come back with some good news.”

Mr Poncin told PerthNow he had been in contact with several hiking agencies to discover the boys were meant to be hiking around the Langtang national park.

“We are relieved as this is believed to be one of the safer areas, but are still desperate to hear from the boys,” he said.

Mr Poncin said it was Raoul’s first time travelling overseas without family.

“He graduated from school last year 12, so this trip was an adventure before higher education and work started,” Mr Poncin said.

“He is a smart kid and we hope to speak to him very soon.”

HAVE YOU FOUND A LOVED ONE: Email: kaitlyn.offer@news.com.au

Meanwhile, Torsten Michael d’Scarlett’s parents Dorit and Russell will also fly to Nepal to tr to track down their 18-year-old son who last made contact on April 22.

media_camera Torsten D'Scarlett was in Nepal when the earthquake struck. Source: Facebook

“Everything’s an adventure until it’s not and now we just want to know our beautiful, kind-hearted 18-year-old boy, Torsten, the one who went out and bought a Nepalese family he had just met and been invited to afternoon tea in their home in the slums of Kathmandu their weeks groceries without being asked, is safe,” Ms D’Scarlett posted on Facebook.

The family lives in Queensland although it is understood Torsten was born in WA.

Claire found

The loved ones of Fremantle traveller Claire Vanderplank are delighted that the 31-year-old, who was listed as missing with the Red Cross, has been found.

media_camera Claire Vanderplank, 33, of Fremantle, has been located after being feared missing in the Nepal quake.

Ms Vanderplank made a public post on her Facebook page on April 7 talking about waiting to get through Kathmandu, writing:

“Killing some time while waiting to be able to get through Kathmandu while a strike is happening. Even through we haven’t made it to the valley yet, the journey has definitely begun,’’ she wrote.

“We are basically exploring living a philosophy of giving. Kathmandu certainly provides many opportunities for this inquiry from many unsuspecting teachers.”

Late Monday, Claire Vanderplank made contact with her family and is fine.

Lisa missing

Meanwhile, Lisa Anne Mirtsopoulos, 45, who was on the “Monk for a Month tour”, has been listed as missing.

Another member of the tour has called in but Lisa has not yet and her family have not heard from her since April 22.

media_camera Greg Kent, who was unaccounted for with his daughter Donna is safe and has contacted family.



Relief at last

The family of a Willetton woman who had been unaccounted for in Kathmandu since the Nepal quake struck have spoken of their relief that she is alive and well.

Mother Shelley Packard told PerthNow that her daughter is safe in Nepal.

“My youngest daughter has been on Facebook for three days and three nights, just searching randomly for anyone that knows anyone in Kathmandu,” Ms Packard said.

She said her daughter eventually got in touch with a man named Ravi who had been travelling with Ms O’Keefe before the quake.

“Ravi got in touch with a man called Andre who is a French Canadian and friend of Brooke’s and he said he had seen her and she is fine.

“It’s such a relief, you can’t imagine.”

Ms Packard said she now desperately wanted to hear her daughter’s voice.

“I’m hoping she can grab a mobile from somewhere, she doesn’t have one,” she said.

“The type of person she is I know she’ll be helping everybody else.”

Ms Packard said the second she talks to her 31-year-old daughter she will be telling her: “You’re not going back there (to Nepal)”.

“But she will. She’s due back though on the 18th (of May) she’s booked her flight.”

Official toll so far

Officials are scrambling to confirm reports an Australian died at Mount Everest’s base camp during the earthquake.

More than 830 Australians who were in Nepal when the quake struck on Saturday are safe, Foreign minister Julie Bishop said earlier.

But authorities are still trying to contact many more from the 1250 families and friends who have reported missing Australians in Nepal.

The official death toll in Nepal from a massive weekend earthquake has risen above 4000, with 6500 injured, Nepal’s disaster management chief Rameshwor Dangal said.

Around 90 people are also known to have died in neighbouring countries, including India and China.

Fears for missing West Australians after Nepal quake media_camera STILL MISSING: Shelly Voigt, of Busselton, was in Nepal raising money for a medical clinic in the Annapurna region. Picture: Facebook 1 of 19 media_camera STILL MISSING: Mitchell James Noga, 21, from Victoria Park. Picture: Facebook 2 of 19 media_camera UNCLEAR: Bunbury trekkers Tanya Kaptein and Michael Barry are reportedly missing but they have not registered with the Red Cross. Picture: Facebook 3 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: 18-year-old Jalada Wilson, 19-year-old Raoul Poncin and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson as they left Perth. 4 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Brooke O'Keefe travelling in India. Image: Facebook 5 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Claire Vanderplank, 33, of Fremantle. 6 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Perth woman Brooke O’Keefe. 7 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Perth climber Blake Penson, who was at Everest Camp 2, made contact with family after the first quake, but has not contacted them again. Picture: Facebook 8 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Shannen Wynne, 20, hiking at Annapurna, just days before the earthquake and avalanche struck, with boyfriend Callumn Shally, 21. Picture: Instagram 9 of 19 media_camera MADE CONTACT: Shannen Wynne, 20, with boyfriend Callumn Shally, 21 during their travels through India. Picture: Instagram 10 of 19 nav_small_close Want to see more?( 9 more photos in collection )Continue to full gallery nav_small_left nav_small_right

West Australians in Nepal

Families and authorities are still attempting to locate at least a dozen West Australians who are believed to be in the region.

MISSING

Angus McDougal Caithness, director of metal mining company Lindian Resources Ltd in West Perth

Anna Barbara Speirs, 25, of Mosman Park

Jalada Wilson, 18, last made contact on April 21.

Raoul Poncin, 19, last made contact on April 17, friends with Jalada Wilson.

Originally from The Netherlands, now lives in Perth and attended Ballajura Community College.

Rin Hutcheson, 18, born in Fremantle, friends with Jalada and Raoul, last made contact on April 16

Luke Grieve, 33, of Bunbury. Last at the Everest Base Camp.

Michael Barry

Tanya Kaptein

Michael Rummer, 23, of Fremantle. Last made contact on April 24 via Facebook

Shelly Ann Voigt, 54

Lisa Anne Mirtsopoulos, 45, was on the “Monk for a Month tour”. Another member of the tour has called in but Lisa has not yet.

Torsten Michael d’Scarlett, 18, last made contact on April 22.

media_camera Torsten D'Scarlett's parents are flying to Nepal where their son was trekking. Source: Facebook

MADE CONTACT

Gregory Kent, 63, of Sorrento

Donna Kent, 37, trekking with her father Gregory

Claire Vanderplank, 33, Fremantle

Kamisha Skye Campbell, 25, and Adam Cleaver

Brooke O’Keefe, 31, Willetton

Ballantyne (Billie) Forder, 22, of Mt Lawley

Callumn Shally, 21, of Burns Beach

Shannen Wynne

Blake Penson

Karen Lee Jury

Nini Tsou and “Big-Fish” Chao (Taiwanese couple living in Perth)

Adam and Tracey Powell

Cassandra Hare, 22, of Gidgegannup

media_camera Karen Lee Jury, 44, was white-water rafting in Nepal when the quake struck and is safe. Picture: Facebook

Karen Lee Jury, 44, is one of the handful of West Australians in Nepal, who have been able to contact family to let them know they are safe.

Ms Jury’s mother Heather told AAP it was a huge relief when Karen, who had been volunteering in the Mustang District near Kathmandu, messaged her on Facebook on Sunday.

“She was actually river rafting when it happened and they spent the night on the banks of the river,” Ms Jury said.

“She’s staying there, she’s not even going to try and get into the city for a couple of days.

“It was a huge relief, we always hoped for the best but not knowing where she was, was the worst.”

media_camera Mt Lawley woman Billie Forder, 22, has made contact with family and is camping in a field after the quake. Picture: Facebook

Perth woman safe, camping in field

Another young Perth woman in Nepal has told her family and friends how she has been camping in a field since a massive magnitude 7.8 earthquake shattered the region.

Mt Lawley woman Ballantyne “Billie’’ Forder, 22, managed to make contact with her mother Deb Forder via Facebook on Sunday.

Up to 13 West Australians remain unaccounted for in the devastating quake which rocked Nepal on Sunday, killing at least one Australian on Mount Everest, and claiming more than 2500 lives, with the death toll expected to soar even higher.

In a post then shared on the Help Us Find Ballantyne Forder Facebook page, Ms Forder wrote:

“Letting all of my loved ones know I am safe during this massive earthquake. The orphanage, some locals and I have been camping in a field since 12pm yesterday, praying for our safety. Please keep myself and the beautiful people of Nepal in your prayers at this time. Rest in peace to the many lives already lost.”

media_camera Billie Forder, 22, working as a volunteer in Nepalese orphanages. Picture: Facebook media_camera Billie Forder’s post, letting family and friends know she was safe. Picture: Facebook

More than 841 liked the post and almost 130 concerned friends and family members shared the notification.

Ms Forder, from Mt Lawley, had been volunteering in orphanages in Kathmandu.

On Monday morning, her family wrote on the community page:

“We are so grateful God, that she is alive. We still don’t know her location. Our concerns for her now are, that she is caring for a number of infant orphans, who call her mum, and that they are out in a field. We know that she will not want to leave them, given her awareness of their vulnerability, and her knowledge of predators in these kinds of situations. We know that her primary concern will be to provide them with food, water, shelter, love and protection. We are working on communications with Billie and will keep you all updated. Appreciate continuing prayers as this is only the initial breakthrough. Much love xxx”

media_camera Billie Forder, with some of the Nepalese orphans she has been caring for. Billie has made contact with family and is safe. Picture: Facebook

Blake Penson

Blake Penson has been in touch with his parents again, confirming he is safe and well after two days without any word.

Michael Penson told the ABC his son had contacted his wife in Spain, who had passed on the news to his family in Perth.

“She just heard they’d be helicoptered from Camp Two to Base Camp and there’s a whole pile of people at Base Camp waiting for helicopters to take them all to Kathmandu,” Mr Penson told the ABC.

“The main thing is we need to get him off that damn mountain.

“We’re very relieved and now we’re obviously more mindful of the other people, and the suffering that’s going on in Nepal.

“You know, we’ve been concentrating on Blake and now our thoughts and prayers are with all those poor people in Kathmandu.”

Experienced climber Blake, 34, was at Everest Camp 2 and phoned his parents Michael and Cheryl Penson two days ago after the big quake, however the Carine couple have not heard from their son since.

They remain concerned because there have been several big aftershocks and avalanches in the region.

media_camera Perth climber Blake Penson, who was at Everest Camp 2, made contact with his Carine parents after the first quake, but has not contacted them again. Picture: Facebook

Mr Penson is trekking with International Mountain Guides.

In an update on the company’s website, IMG Partner Eric Simonson said climbers who were at Camp 2 would be descending to Camp 1 so that helicopters can fetch them.

“The weather is OK this morning, and we have several of the high performance AS350 B3e helicopters making laps between BC and Camp 1,” he wrote.

Mr Penson was at Camp 2.

“We are hoping that we can get everyone flown down today,” Mr Simonson wrote.

Callumn Shally and Shannen Wynne

Fellow travellers Callumn Shally and Shannen Wynne also managed to reach out to family via Facebook.

“Thanks everyone for your thoughts, Shannen and me are safe. We are in Pokhara just west of where the epicentre and we were lucky to have no major damage. Ballantyne Forder please be safe my thoughts are with all those in Kathmandu,” Mr Shally wrote.

The post saw a flood of relief from family and friends.

media_camera Perth travellers Shannen Wynne, 20, and boyfriend Callumn Shally, 21, in India. Picture: Instagram

“Get out of there asap because of aftershocks xxxx,” his sister Maegan wrote.

“Omg. I’m actually crying tears of joy. Cannot imagine what your mum, dad and sis (sic) have gone through and how they must be feeling right now. So glad you’re OK Callumn. X,” friend Michelle Kinsey wrote.

Ms Wynne shared Mr Shally’s post to let her friends and family know she was safe.

More than a dozen WA residents are believed to be in Nepal.

media_camera Callumn Shally, 21, trekking in Nepal. Picture: Facebook media_camera Shannen Wynne, 20, at Annapurna, just days before the earthquake. Picture: Instagram

Nepal: Found safe

Secret Harbour couple Adam and Tracey Powell were travelling in Kathmandu with Outfitter Nepal Trek Group, which has said the couple were safe.

A Taiwanese couple who were living in Perth and trekking through Nepal at the time of the earthquake have confirmed they are safe.

Friends of Nini Tsou and “Big-Fish” Chao, who works at a Perth restaurant, have confirmed the couple are safe and have made contact on Nini Tsou’s Facebook page.

Bunbury woman Kamisha Skye Campbell, 25, who was trekking in Nepal with WA man Adam Cleaver, has confirmed the pair are safe.

Ms Campbell contacted her family via social media on Sunday night, the ABC reports.

“We felt the quake but no casualties or probs where we were,” she wrote.

Gidgegannup resident Cassandra Hare had been listed on the Red Cross register as someone in Nepal, but has made contact notifying she is safe.

media_camera Taiwanese couple Nini Tsou and "Big-Fish" Chao, were in Nepal, but are safe. Pictures: Facebook media_camera "Big-Fish" Chao. Pictures: Facebook

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has opened its Emergency Call Unit and has updated the travel advice for Nepal.

There are disruptions to telecommunications, transport and tourist infrastructure.

Family are urged to continue to try and reach travellers directly.

But if contact cannot be made, there is the DFAT’s 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 6261-3305 or, within Australia, on 1300 555 135 (local call cost).
</text>