<url>
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/world/article/singapore-sends-search-and-rescue-teams-to-aid-in-nepal-quake
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Singapore sends search-and-rescue teams to aid in Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
Singapore sends search-and-rescue teams to aid in Nepal quake

Two Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 aircraft left Paya Lebar Airbase yesterday carrying a 69-member search-and-rescue team. — TODAY picSINGAPORE, April 27 — A contingent of search-and-rescue personnel and disaster relief experts left Singapore yesterday for Nepal, to help in what is said to be the Himalayan nation’s worst earthquake in 80 years.

Two Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 aircraft left Paya Lebar Airbase yesterday carrying a 69-member search-and-rescue team comprising officers from the Singapore Civil Defence Force and Singapore Police Force — including officers from the Gurkha contingent — and four dogs.

An advance team of six from the Changi Regional Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief Coordination Centre (RHCC) was also deployed to assist the Nepalese national disaster management authorities and military with their attempts to coordinate relief efforts. Also on board was a United Nations’ Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs representative.

The team is expected to arrive in Kathmandu around noon today. A 16-person Singapore Armed Forces medical team is also on standby and ready to depart, said the Ministry of Defence yesterday.

In the Gallery

People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sherpas, climbers, porters and rescue teams help carry a person injured by an avalanche that flattened part of Everest Base Camp, April 26, 2015. — AFP pic



People gather near a collapsed house after a major earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after a major earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A collapsed building is pictured after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. ― Reuters pic



People search for family members trapped inside collapsed houses a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy smiles as he is rescued from a collapsed house after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. — Reuters pic



People cremate the bodies of the victims of an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man cries as he walks on the street while passing through a damaged statue of Lord Buddha a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



A man carrying his belongings searches for a safe place to take shelter after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A family carry their belongings as they rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit on the rubble of a temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, a day after the 7.9 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and devastated Kathmandu valley, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Family members eat their dinner in front of a makeshift shelter on open ground to keep safe after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man fills water from a water tank near a collapsed temple in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A mother and her child sit inside a makeshift shelter in an open ground to keep safe after the earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A girl holds her mother as they stand outside a hospital during a strong aftershock after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A tourist makes his way through the debris of a temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A woman carries her belongings as she walks over collapsed house after earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People displaced after Saturday’s earthquake stand in a queue to get food from a local organisation at an open ground in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo taken on April 26, 2015.— Reuters pic



Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic



Rescue team member from Nepal, Turkey and china works during the rescue operation to rescue live victims trapped inside the collapsed hotel after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepalese army personnel clear the debris of a collapsed house as they carry out rescue operations following Saturday’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Villagers walk past a damaged house where three were killed by the earthquake at Jharibar Village, in Gorkha, Nepal April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy wades through the water next to the burning pyres of people, who died in the earthquake, during the cremation along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 29, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents wait to fill water from hand pump next to damaged houses in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents and volunteers clear debris from a temple following the earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepal military personnel clear the rubble which were destroyed after last week’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic



Earthquake victims carry their belongings as they make their way through a collapsed house at a village in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic

In a Facebook post, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said: “We know that there are risks of further aftershocks but are confident that these men and women will do Singapore proud and perform their utmost to help our Nepalese friends in need.”

These efforts come after the Government on Saturday said it would contribute S$100,000 (RM267,919) as seed money to kick-start the Singapore Red Cross’ appeal for donations. The Singapore Red Cross, which will be sending US$50,000 worth of relief items and emergency supplies to Nepal, said it will accept donations in both in cash and cheque, which will be channelled towards emergency relief and recovery assistance for the affected communities. It is also in contact with its partners in Nepal and plans to send disaster response personnel to the affected areas.

Humanitarian organisation Mercy Relief said it will set aside an initial tranche of S$60,000 to support acute relief efforts. It is also set to deploy a two-man preliminary disaster response team to Kathmandu to ascertain ground needs and procure initial batch of relief supplies.

Mercy Relief chairman Michael Tay said: “From experience, we are directing our acute relief efforts at shoring up the supply and distribution of shelter, food and water for the survivors.”

Its rapid response team on the ground on Monday will determine how it can most effectively assist with recovery, he added. The group will also call for donations for quake victims starting today. — TODAY
</text>