<url>
http://www.kfiam640.com/onair/gary-hoffmann-11314/how-you-can-help-the-earthquake-13536484/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
How You Can Help the Earthquake Victims in Nepal
</headline>

<text>




Photo: Getty



Gary spoke to seismologist Lucy Jones about the earthquake. She reminded him the San Andreas Fault can do just as much damage:





LOS ANGELES (CNS) - A 57-person task force of Southland firefighters winged its way today to Nepal to help in rescue and recovery efforts following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake reported to have killed more than 3,800 people in the Himalayan nation.

The team departed the task force's San Fernando Valley headquarters today and took off for Nepal around 11:25 p.m. Sunday aboard a C-17 transport plane from March Air Reserve Base in Riverside County, according to a Los Angeles County Fire Department post on Twitter.

The team was expected to arrive in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu today, Los Angeles County Fire Capt. Roland Sprewell said.

Thousands of people, including a Santa Monica-based documentary filmmaker, Tom Taplin, were killed in the earthquake, which struck just before noon local time Saturday -- just before 11:15 p.m. on Friday, California time. Taplin was in Nepal making a film about the community at the Mount Everest base camp, according to news reports.

A santa Monica couple is reported to be missing since the quake. A. Michelle Page and her husband Daniel Adams arrived in Nepal last week. Page planned to collect portraits of dogs, cats, horses and rabbits by local artists and commission more Nepalese artwork that she would sell to American pet lovers, the Los Angeles Times reported.

Page, 58, is a former film editor whose projects included the Spider-Man trilogy and Robert Altman’s ``The Player,” according to her website.







Aid groups are rushing to get crucial supplies to survivors of Nepal's devastating earthquake. Here's a look at humanitarian efforts under way in Nepal and how to donate online:RED CROSSThe International Committee for the Red Cross says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society and has a team working on emergency response.To help with emergency response, go toUNICEFThe U.N. children's agency, UNICEF, says nearly 1 million children in Nepal need help. UNICEF says it is preparing two cargo flights with a combined 120 tons of humanitarian supplies including medical and hospital supplies, tents and blankets, for urgent airlift to Kathmandu.To help the children, go to

WORLD FOOD PROGRAM



The U.N. World Food Program says logistics and emergency response teams have arrived in Kathmandu.



To help with food, go to WFP

MERCY CORPS

Mercy Corps warns that prices for essential supplies in Nepal are rising quickly. The group says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society to help distribute essential household supplies, shelter kits and tarpaulins. Mercy Corps has 90 staffers on the ground in Nepal, some of whom have lost their homes in the quake.

To help with housing, go to MERCY CORPS

SAVE THE CHILDREN



Save the Children says it has staff in 63 districts and emergency kits, hygiene materials and tarpaulins already in Nepal and ready for distribution. Additional supplies and emergency recovery teams are being flown in.



To help with emergency materials, go to SAVE THE CHILDREN



Oxfam says its team in Nepal is assessing needs and it is sending emergency food, water and sanitation supplies. "Communication is currently very difficult. Telephone lines are down and the electricity has been cut off making charging mobile phones difficult. The water is also cut off," country director Cecilia Keizer says in a statement.



To help water and sanitation supplies, go to OXFAM



DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS



Doctors Without Borders, also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, says it is sending medical staff and supplies to Nepal, including emergency surgical teams.



To help with medical staff, go to DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS

To read about other ways you can help, go to AP
</text>