<url>
http://www.tribuneindia.com/news/uttarakhand/minor-tremors-rock-state/72256.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Minor tremors rock state
</headline>

<text>
Tribune News Sercvice

Pithoragarh, April 25

People ran for their lives and came out of their homes and offices as tremors were felt in Pithoragarh district following an earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale rocked the neighbouring Nepal around 11.44 am today. However, no loss of property or life was reported from the district. “The tremors were felt in Delhi, UP and Haryana. The epicentre was in Lanhung, 89 km north-west of Kathmandu, 300 km from the Indo-Nepal border,” said RS Rana, District Disaster Management Officer in Pithoragarh district. He said the tremors rocked some parts of the state for about 20 seconds, but no loss of property or human lives was reported from anywhere. SMJN College wall collapses in Haridwar Panic gripped people as tremors were felt in Haridwar district. Residents came out of their houses. A portion of a wall caved in at Shravan Nath Math Jawaharlal Nehru (SMJN)College, here. Reports of similar incidents came to light in the city and rural periphery. Various schools swiftly shifted students from classrooms to the playgrounds. Later, most of the schools suspended the remaining classes as a precautionary measure. District disaster officer Naresh Chaudhari said SDRF, BEG and PAC platoons were put on alert to ensure rescue-relief operations in case of any emergency. He added that no loss of life was reported, though people were panicky for several hours after the tremors in the morning. Labourers in Mussoorie worried about kin in Nepal Minor tremors were felt also in Mussoorie on Saturday. Residents said they heard the clutter of shaking windowpanes for a few seconds. However, many were not aware of the minor tremor. The earthquake that struck Nepal with 7.9 on Richter scale and epicentre near Lamjung has left many Nepali labourers in Mussoorie a worried lot. Several labourers of Nepali origin were seen rushing to STD booths to enquire about their kith and kin back home and praying for their safety. Eminent author Ruskin Bond expressed grief at the loss of life in the tragedy that struck in Nepal and some parts of India. He hailed the Indian Government for its quick assistance in the hour of crisis. Ruskin said the rescue workers should assist the children and women caught in the tragedy on priority as they are most vulnerable during such disasters. He hoped that the people would recover from the tragedy soon. The MLA of Mussoorie, Ganesh Joshi, also expressed sadness at the tragedy. He said the Modi government was prompt in sending a rescue mission to Kathmandu. Joshi said efforts were being made to collect medicines and other items from his constituency for the earthquake-hit areas. Social activist Jabar Singh from Kandi Khal, who has worked during Uttarakhand disasters, said over 700 people are reported dead in Nepal in the earthquake and in such cases post-trauma care was essential with rescue efforts. He said that his organisation was planning to assist in the rescue and post-trauma care and would leave for Nepal soon. Meanwhile, environmentalists have warned that too much human activity was detrimental for the health of the Himalayas and utmost care must be taken while dealing with the fragile region of the Himalayas.
</text>