<url>
http://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/newlywed-london-couple-among-hundreds-trapped-at-everest-base-camp-by-huge-avalanches-triggered-by-earthquake-in-nepal-10205795.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal death toll hits 3,700 as rescuers race to save hundreds of climbers trapped on Everest by avalanche
</headline>

<text>
A newlywed couple stranded on Mount Everest today issued a desperate plea for helicopters to airlift them to safety as the death toll from the Nepal earthquake hit 3,288.

Emergency teams from around the world are in a race against time to rescue around 100 climbers and holidaymakers who have spent two nights trapped at the upper reaches of world’s highest peak by the “tsunami” of snow and ice.

Up to 22 climbers were killed and more than 60 injured in avalanches on Everest triggered by the 7.8 magnitude quake on Saturday, which was followed by a series of aftershocks blocking routes down the southern face.

The scale of the humanitarian disaster across the impoverished mountain kingdom continued to unfold today as rescuers struggled to reach remote towns and villages battered by mudslides and torrential rain.

According to the Foreign Office, some 200 Britons are still unaccounted for across the region.

In capital Kathmandu, bodies lie among the rubble of collapsed buildings. Hundreds of thousands of refugees are living in tent cities without access to power or clean water and hospitals are unable to cope with the thousands of patients.

WARNING: footage contains some strong language

At least 1,000 people, including 400 foreigners, were on Everest when the first tremor hit at noon on Saturday.

Among those killed was Dan Fredinberg, a Google executive.

Families of British tourists whose loved ones are caught up in the tragedy today said they had been living a “nightmare” as they waited for news over the weekend.

Honeymoon couple Sam Chappatte and Alex Schneider, both 28 and from Notting Hill, are among around 100 people still trapped at Mount Everest’s 17,700ft Camp 1.

They had left Base Camp and climbed across the Khumbu icefall to reach the camp when powerful tremors left them clinging to ice axes to avoid being swept away.

With only enough fuel and food to last a “couple of days”, they now face worsening weather conditions and the dread of further aftershocks.

Mr Chappatte’s mother Sarah today posted the couple’s desperate appeal for helicopters on a blog the couple had been using to update friends and family on their honeymoon trip.

She said: “We believe that around 100 climbers and sherpas are trapped between camps 1 and 2.

“They only have enough food and supplies for a few days and some of the climbers are beginning to suffer from altitude sickness. All reports confirm that the icefall is now impassable so there is no way to climb down.

“We are sure that the Nepalese authorities are doing everything they can in an impossible situation but it is really is so important that they are helicoptered out today before the weather worsens on Tuesday.”

The couple, who married earlier this month, are part of an 11-strong organised trek led by renowned British climber Dan Mazur, who is also stranded.

At least five other Britons are cut off on the mountainside including James Grieve, 52, from Kinross, Scotland, who was taking part in a Help for Heroes trek.

Mr Grieve contacted his wife Shirley yesterday, who said: “There are about 100 people at the camp and only 12 helicopters. Each can only carry two climbers so he will be there for a while.

“They’ve got a couple of days’ food left and will be rationing it. James is a pretty tough and resilient man and is in good spirits.”

Last night emergency teams from London were joining aid workers from all over the world in desperate efforts to save those injured or missing.

The Foreign Office has received no reports of Britons being killed or injured but said it has helped hundreds of people.

Families today told the Standard about the “nightmarish” wait for news of their loved ones stranded 4,500 miles away.

Archaeologist Hayley Saul, 32, was on a trekking expedition in the Langtang National Park, north of Kathmandu, with friend Emma Waterton.

Her sister Emma Price, who lives in Northampton, told the Standard: “It was the worst 24 hours of my life. It was frantic. There was just no information.

“They left Langtang two hours before the earthquake hit. We now know that Langtang village doesn’t exist anymore because of landslides on all side and they were two hours away from that.

“I got a voicemail saying ‘please get the Foreign Office to send some helicopters’ and I got onto the crisis team at the FCO.

“They were out there on a dig to protect and promote the culture of the Himalayas, but obviously some of that has been wiped out now.”

Gap-year volunteer Anna Buchanan, 18, from New Malden, was missing for more than 24 hours until she contacted her distraught mother Pauline at lunchtime yesterday.

Ms Buchanan, 53, said: “As I spoke to her there was another tremor. Everyone started screaming, it was just awful.

“When I spoke to her she sounded really shaken and she got a lump in her throat when she was talking about all the devastation.

“She’s had a real high now she’s having such a low. It’s like living in devastation.”

Miss Buchanan travelled to Nepal with a group called The Original Volunteers to teach children, work in an orphanage and build homes.

Saad Hikmet, from Mill Hill, whose son Jonathan, 25, has not been heard of since the disaster, said: “He was on a trek of Northern Nepal with yoga instructors and they’ve been going around for a month.

“Now we just want to know that he’s safe,” he said.

Philip Green, 30 and originally from St John’s Wood, flew into Kathmandu from China after spending five years teaching English in Seoul.

His brother Rob said: “He was due to spend a few days in Kathmandu before trekking to the Mera Peak but we are not clear on what days he was leaving. Obviously we are extremely worried at the moment. It’s a nightmare for us.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond today announced that 200 Britons had been given practical help by embassy staff.

He said: “There are several hundred British nationals in Nepal at this time of year and we expect that almost certainly some will have been caught up in the earthquakes. But at this moment we have no reports of any British nationals killed or injured.”

Mr Hammond added that the devastation to the country’s infrastructure meant it could be some time before all the Britons in the region could be identified and accounted for.

The Department for International Development announced that it would be providing £5 million of humanitarian aid.

A total of £3 million has been released under the Rapid Response Facility (RRF) to address immediate, on-the-ground needs and £2 million has been released to the British Red Cross.

Oxfam is also lending its support with teams flying in from the UK with supplies to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food supplies.

Christian Aid has made an initial £50,000 available to help victims.

Anyone who is caught up in the incident or worried about a family member should call the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on +44 (0) 207 008 0000.
</text>