<url>
http://www.theweathernetwork.com/uk/news/articles/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-tops-3500/50142/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake death toll could hit 10,000
</headline>

<text>
Thousands of people have died from Saturday's powerful Nepal earthquake

Nepal earthquake death toll could hit 10,000

Find Your Forecast Search by city or full postcode

Tuesday, April 28, 2015, 13:11 GMT - The death toll from Saturday's devastating earthquake in Nepal has topped 5,000, according to local officials.

Most of the deaths occurred in Nepal, but dozens have also died in neighbouring China, India and Bangladesh

However, that number is expected to keep rising as rescuers penetrate more remote parts of the country with some estimating the final death toll to be over 10,000.

Eight million people have thought to have been affected by the earthquake in Nepal alone.

Since Saturday's quake, the country has been rattled with numerous aftershocks. The largest, Magnitude 6.7, struck Sunday, and although weaker than the main tremor, it was still powerful enough to send people scrambling for cover.

As the Nepalese dug through the rubble in effort to help find the missing, white smoke rose above the capital as friends and family gathered to mourn and cremate dozens of love ones' remains at the Pashupatinath Temple on Sunday.

"We don't feel safe at all. There have been so many aftershocks. It doesn't stop," Rajendra Dhungana, 34, told Associated Press. Dhungana spent the day with his niece's family for her cremation.

"I've watched hundreds of bodies burn. I never thought I'd see so many ... Nepal should learn a lesson from this. They should realize proper buildings should be built. There should be open spaces people can run to."

BREAKING | Traffic in Kathmandu halted for 4 hrs; 80% houses damaged in Gorkha Region of Nepal due to #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/MKWZ8dHzu5 — Anil kumar (@simbamara) April 26, 2015

IN PICTURES: Full gallery of the earthquake aftermath

The initial earthquake, measured at Magnitude 7.8, struck around noon about 80 km northwest of the capital Kathmandu, levelling buildings and infrastructure. It also sparked avalanches in the Himalayas, including Mount Everest, where at least 18 people were killed.

Making matters worse is the weather. Thousands of people were forced to sleep outside the ruins of their homes, in cold and wet conditions.

It's also hindering rescue efforts. Rain and thunderstorms are forecast for much of the country Sunday, with scattered thundershowers and temperatures in the 25-30oC mark until at least Thursday.

On Saturday, cloudy conditions foiled the evacuation of dozens of people injured at base camp near Mount Everest, although they were eventually able to take off and reach Kathmandu.

AFP photographer Roberto Schmidt, at base camp on Everest when the quake struck, has sent back his first pictures pic.twitter.com/4aQSaVqyRH — Agence France-Presse (@AFP) April 26, 2015

Among the dead was Google executive Dan Fredinburg, who died from a head injury.

In the long term, recovery efforts will struggle beneath the at-times pounding rains, thunderstorms and sweltering temperatures that mark the Nepalese spring.

The UN says there 14 international medical teams on the way to Nepal, along with 15 international search-and-rescue units.

Several hundred Britons are thought to have been in Nepal when the earthquake struck, although there have been no reports of deaths or injuries so far.

The UK has pledged £5million and sent as eight person humanitarian team to the country.

The earthquake was the worst to Nepal in more than 80 years, levelling buildings across the region, including towers and temples dating back at least a century. Among them is Dharahara, also known as the Bhimsen Tower, a UNESCO World Heritage Site built in 1832 that stood nine stories tall.

The earthquake was caused by movement of the Indian plate crashing into the Eurasian plate, part of a process that has been ongoing for millions of years.

In 1934, the general area was struck by one of the worst earthquakes in history, an 8.0M quake that caused widespread damage and killed more than 10,000 people.

Google's crisis response team launched a person finder for the incident where people can submit information available on people in the area as well as search for information made available by people in the area.

Red Cross also set up a people finder to help those searching for affected by the quake.

There are about 12 members internationally from Red Cross located in Nepal providing aid to those affected.

"Our main focus is on life-saving assistance, first aid and search and rescue. We are also providing food, water and medical assistance," said Chiran Livera, spokesperson at Canadian Red Cross. "What's being described on the ground is that the situation is chaotic but relief has arrived and they are getting to individuals who are affected."

The Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) has set up a Nepal Earthquake Appeal in response to the disaster. To donate, click here.

Sniffer dogs also being sent by IAF aircraft to #NepalEarthquake to help with search & rescue, reports @JRPur. pic.twitter.com/gehiKlxFHC — Shiv Aroor (@ShivAroor) April 25, 2015

With files from Daniel Martins, Rodrigo Cokting and Leeanna McLean (TWN Canada)

Source: BBC | CNN | Time | Canadian Press

Latest pics sent to ANI from Kathmandu of #earthquake aftermath pic.twitter.com/hhdXHMTQAu — ANI (@ANI_news) April 25, 2015

Follow Chris Burton on Google+
</text>