<url>
http://www.actionaid.org/australia/NepalResponse
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
more aftershocks 3 months on
</headline>

<text>
Please support our work on the ground to ensure more people can be reached, donate today

Latest Update: Nepal experienced another four big aftershocks on 18th June. The aftershocks were felt in Kathmandu, two in Sindhupalchowk and one at the Sindhupalchowk-Tibet border area. Our staff have been reported as safe and are thoughts are with everyone there.

Background

A 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck 77km northwest of Nepal's capital Kathmandu on 25 April 2015. The devastating impact of the initial quake was exacerbated by aftershocks in the days after and a second 7.3 magnitude quake on 12 May. Among the millions, women have been most acutely affected.

As of 3 June the Government of Nepal has confirmed 8,700 people were killed by the earthquakes with thousands more left injured. A staggering 500,000 houses were also destroyed and many have endured cold, wet monsoon weather living in the open. It is estimated that a total 2.8 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance and over 860,000 are in immediate need in hard to reach areas due to loss of shelter, limited accessibility and poverty. In addition to continued extreme weather, trauma is a major issue among survivors.

ActionAid's Response:

ActionAid has provided support to over 90,000 people (more than 15,000 households) across the Kathmandu, Kavre, Sindhupalchok and Rasuwa districts. This is 2.8% higher than our target.

Relief kits were immediately distributed, which met basic necessities of water, food, hygiene and shelter.

Dignity kits have been provided specifically for women and a safe space for women in Khokana has been established.

ActionAid is constructing temporary shelters for survivors in the Sindhupalchowk district using locally available materials. Over 200 have been constructed so far.

Seven women-friendly spaces have been constructed in the Kathmandu Valley, and the building of temporary learning centres for children unable to attend school will begin shortly (WaterAid will provide toilets in some of these facilities).

A partnership with private sector firm Sun Farmers is providing solar lamps to particularly vulnerable women and central solar charging stations in villages Sindhupalchok district.

Areas affected

ActionAid workers and thousands of volunteers have been responding in the Kathmandu Valley and in the districts of Kavre, Sindhupalchok and Rasuwa districts.

We are now also focusing on the Dolakha district.

How you can help?

Australians are giving generously in solidarity with the people of Nepal. Immediate relief is ongoing and the process of rebuilding will be long. Donate now to our emergency appeal.
</text>