<url>
http://blogs.windsorstar.com/news/locals-survive-catastrophic-earthquake-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Locals survive catastrophic earthquake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A Windsor native who is studying yoga in Nepal recounted her harrowing ordeal when a massive earthquake struck the mountainous nation on the weekend.

Chloe Grayson, 29, is studying to be a yoga instructor in the tourist town of Pokhara and her class was just preparing to break for lunch at 11:45 a.m. Saturday (2 a.m. eastern time) when she felt shaking.

“We were on the second floor of our yoga hall and the roof started to rattle and everything started to shake and the whole building just started to go violent,” Grayson said Sunday night, Monday morning in Nepal. She has been in Pokhara since April 5.

“We just all jumped up and ran onto the main lawn. Everything was shaking, the ground was just, I don’t know how much it was moving, it was difficult to stand up.”

Pokhara did not sustain as much damage as Kathmandu, but Grayson said if the shaking had lasted much longer buildings would have started coming down.

Prior to arriving in Nepal, Grayson had spent two years teaching English in Osaka, Japan.

“I’ve experienced really mild tremors in Japan but nothing of this magnitude,” said Grayson.

“I’ve never in my life had to face death and I think for the first time ever I thought quite possibly I was going to die.”

Grayson returned to her dorm to nap, but an aftershock shook her from her sleep she and her classmates have been sleeping outside ever since.

Grayson plans to return to Canada next month.

Also, a pair of local adventure seekers are stuck in the country with no immediate way out and no idea when they can return home.

But their families are counting their blessings that the pair left a Kathmandu hotel hours before it sustained severe damage in the 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

“I’m just really glad that they’re safe,” said Tammy Wilcox, mother of Christian Wilcox, 20, who departed with his friend Ian Virtue, 19, from Detroit on Tuesday for the long-planned journey to trek the Annapurna circuit.

Nepal authorities said Sunday that at least 2,430 people died in that country alone, not including the 18 dead in the avalanche. Another 61 people died from the quake in India and a few in other neighbouring countries.

The Tecumseh men flew to Philadelphia, then to Qatar and then on to Kathmandu.

They spent about 3½ days in Kathmandu, leaving about seven or eight hours before the earthquake struck Saturday morning at 2 a.m. eastern time and largely levelling the hotel.

“They went to Annapurna to trek the circuit there,” said Wilcox, who has been receiving sporadic updates on her son via texts from a satellite phone Virtue has. “They weren’t in Annapurna very long before the earthquake hit.”

Wilcox said she learned Saturday morning of the earthquake and quickly began to receive calls from concerned friends and family.

“I found out (Saturday) about 7 or 8 in the morning that they were alive and shaken up and a lot of the little hostels along the circuit were kind of decimated,” said Wilcox.

“They wanted to go back to Kathmandu but there was no transportation and they found out nobody could go back there because of the devastation.”

The pair had registered with the Canadian embassy and hired a guide, who has been with them all the way.

Annapurna was devastated by the quake so the pair continued on to another few villages, finally arriving at one that still has electrical power.

“They are supposed to sit tight and wait to see if they can somehow get out of there,” said Wilcox.

“In this small village the people are helping. They met up with another group of trekkers and they are all in the village being taken care of by the villagers there.”

Wilcox works at the Caboto Club and Virtue works at the Aquatic Centre and both are students at the University of Windsor.

“They’re safe and they’re with a group and the guide they’re with is going above and beyond the call of duty,” said Wilcox.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Nepalese braced against terrifying aftershocks Sunday while digging for survivors in the devastation wrought a day earlier by the massive quake.

Acrid, white smoke rose above the nation’s most revered Hindu temple, where dozens of bodies were being cremated at any given time.

Aid groups received the first word from remote mountain villages — reports that suggested many communities perched on mountainsides were devastated or struggling to cope.

“We don’t feel safe at all. There have been so many aftershocks. It doesn’t stop,” said Rajendra Dhungana, 34, who spent the day with his niece’s family for her cremation at the Pashuputi Nath Temple in Kathmandu. “I’ve watched hundreds of bodies burn. I never thought I’d see so many … Nepal should learn a lesson from this. They should realize proper buildings should be built. There should be open spaces people can run to.”

By late Sunday, the aftershocks appeared be weakening.

cthompson@windsorstar.com

With files from Star News Services

[pn_facebook_like /]
</text>