<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/474272/legislators-donate-months-salary-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Legislators to donate month's salary to earthquake relief work
</headline>

<text>
Bengaluru, April 27, 2015, DHNS: 0:44 IST

Members of both Houses of the State legislature, including ministers, on Monday unanimously decided to donate one month’s salary towards relief works in the earthquake-hit Nepal.



Speaking while offering condolence to the victims of earthquake in the Legislative Assembly, Revenue Minister V Srinivas Prasad said he said many legislators have even expressed eagerness to give a portion of money from their local area development fund towards the relief works. Opposition leader Jagadish Shettar too said his party members will contribute their one-month salary.



Official sources in the legislature said the members will give only their basic salary for the relief works and not the allowances. It is not clear whether the legislators’ salary will be directly sent to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund or will be utilised for relief works in some other form.



381 from State stranded



The minister further informed the House that about 381 people from Karnataka were stranded in the earthquake-hit areas of Nepal. Of this, about 95 have safely reached New Delhi. Efforts are on to bring back the others.



Those stranded in Nepal include a team of 35 tourists from Harapanahalli in Mandya and another 30-member team of tourists from Belgavi. Both the teams are reported to be safe and will soon return to Karnataka, he added.



Speaking in the Legislative Council, Leader of the Opposition K S Eshwarappa said India and Nepal shared a common bond with regard to culture and tradition. It was the responsibility of the country to come to the rescue of Nepal in times of distress.

Eshwarappa said BJP members will donate their one month’s salary for relief work. Soon Congress and JD(S) leaders also said their party members too would make the donation. Chairman D H Shankara­- murthy announced that the House had unanimously decided to donate one month’s salary for relief work.



Survivors meet CM



Quake survivors Ravindra and his wife Janaki Ravindra from Bengaluru, met Chief Minister Siddaramaiah at Vidhana Soudha and thanked both the Central and the State governments for the rescue operation.

Speaking to the media, they said they were at the Pashupathinath temple in Kathmandu, when the quakes occurred. “We thought we will breathe our last in the temple itself. Fortunately, we survived the calamity. The Indian Air Force rescued us and brought us safely to New Delhi. At the capital, the Karnataka government too came to our assistance. We are grateful to the authorities at both the Centre and the State,” they added.



Special officer



Senior IAS officer Pankaj Kumar Pandey has been deputed as special officer in charge of rescue operation at the quake-hit Nepal. He may be contacted on 977985109776.


</text>