<url>
http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2015/apr/26/how-to-help-nepal-quake-victims/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
How to help Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
Aid groups are rushing to get crucial supplies to survivors of Nepal's devastating earthquake, which has killed more than 2,500 people. Here's a look at humanitarian efforts under way in Nepal and how to donate online:

UNICEF

The U.N. children's agency, UNICEF, says nearly 1 million children in Nepal need help. UNICEF says it is preparing two cargo flights with a combined 120 tons of humanitarian supplies including medical and hospital supplies, tents and blankets, for urgent airlift to Kathmandu.

WORLD FOOD PROGRAM

The U.N. World Food Program says logistics and emergency response teams have arrived in Kathmandu.

RED CROSS

The International Committee for the Red Cross says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society and has a team working on emergency response.

MERCY CORPS

Mercy Corps warns that prices for essential supplies in Nepal are rising quickly. The group says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society to help distribute essential household supplies, shelter kits and tarpaulins. Mercy Corps has 90 staffers on the ground in Nepal, some of whom have lost their homes in the quake.

SAVE THE CHILDREN

Save the Children says it has staff in 63 districts and emergency kits, hygiene materials and tarpaulins already in Nepal and ready for distribution. Additional supplies and emergency recovery teams are being flown in.

OXFAM

Oxfam says its team in Nepal is assessing needs and it is sending emergency food, water and sanitation supplies. "Communication is currently very difficult. Telephone lines are down and the electricity has been cut off making charging mobile phones difficult. The water is also cut off," country director Cecilia Keizer says in a statement.

DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS

Doctors Without Borders, also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, says it is sending medical staff and supplies to Nepal, including emergency surgical teams.

JDC

The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) is providing relief and medical supplies and sending a disaster relief team.

SAMARITANS PURSE

The Christian aid organization has deployed a disaster relief team and initial supplies for 15,000 households to support partner hospitals.

LUTHERAN WORLD RELIEF

The Lutheran aid group is on the ground trying to meet basic needs such as the distribution of water filtration units and quilts.

CARE

The humanitarian organization that fights global poverty is on the ground in Nepal.

WORLD VISION

The Christian aid organization is on the ground assessing the disaster in Nepal.

PAYPAL GIVING FUND

The web payment company announced it was waiving fees for donations to the Nepal relief effort. It was delivering donations through its PayPal Giving Fund to several of the aid groups listed above, among others.
</text>