<url>
http://www.heraldsun.com.au/news/nepal-earthquake-australians-tell-of-panicked-scenes-in-kathmandu/story-fnstek7z-1227323715803?nk=2d869dd5b3eb7f9ce061d71c39e61f03
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australians tell of panicked scenes in Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
A NEPALESE adventure has turned nightmare holiday for a Melbourne couple caught in the destruction of Saturday’s devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Kim Logan and partner Matt Hogg contacted worried family and friends from Kathmandu late Sunday afternoon, confirming their safety and telling of panicked scenes in the affected city.

The pair, who both currently live in Canada, were emotionally reunited on Sunday morning, with Ms Logan’s plane landing just hours after the quake hit.

Mr Hogg, an engineer from Burwood who has been in Nepal on a dirt biking trip since April 12, was awaiting his girlfriend’s arrival in a room on the fourth floor of a Kathmandu hotel when the ground began to tremble.

“The whole building was swaying and swinging. A security guard was standing on the stairs, half a flight down, and he and I peered worriedly at each other as we heard smashing and banging from upstairs in the kitchen, followed by screams, yelling and glass breaking,” he told the Herald Sun on Monday.

TEARS FOR MUM KILLED ON MT EVEREST

CITY MOVES 3M IN 30 SECONDS

VICTORIAN FAMILIES WAIT FOR NEWS OF MISSING LOVED ONES

ACTOR’S DESPERATE MISSION TO FIND BROTHER

Evacuating the building, Mr Hogg, 32, found the city in chaos as the first of dozens of aftershocks sparked a “frenzied scene.”

Cars and motorbikes swerved “wildly” to avoid cracks forming in the roads as people ran in every direction, he said.

“I saw people screaming and crying with fear. The ground rippled beneath my feet and eyes. It felt hollow underneath, like it might tear open,” he said.

“Eventually we went exploring, to find a five story building nearby had catastrophically fallen into an open square below. A group of people were tearing chunks of rubble away, and extracted an injured woman in front of our eyes. We climbed over some rubble to take in the scene of total devastation. Several people were half dressed, covered in dust, as though they had survived the collapse, and they dug furiously in the rubble. We saw four bodies pulled from the rubble, limp and bloody. They appeared to be local women.”

Ms Logan, 26, arrived in Kathmandu just after 12am Sunday, wracked with worry at her boyfriend’s whereabouts after reaching their hotel to find he had been relocated.

“The (taxi) driver sped through narrow, winding streets, dodging groups of people sleeping in the middle of the road while others were huddled together roadside in front of campfires,” she said.

“It wasn’t until the wee hours of the morning when the receptionist arrived that he was able to give me the name of the hotel where he thought Matt and his motor biking group were. I walked over at six in the morning, eager to find him and when they confirmed he was there, I breathed a sigh of relief. It was an intensely emotional reunion after such a long period of uncertainty and worry.”

The public relations consultant and former Glen Waverley local described the usually vibrant city as a zone of bleakness and fear. She said many people were opting to camp outside their homes or hotels, concerned powerful aftershocks or another quake could cause more buildings to collapse.

With many telephone poles down, she said internet and phone access was limited, creating trouble for tourists attempting to contact home.

Thousands of frightened Nepalis have reportedly begun to flee the city and Ms Logan said food and water supplies had begun to deplete. She said most shops also remained closed and water and power had been shut off in Thamel, a key tourist area of Kathmandu where the pair are staying.
</text>