<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68081530/One-Kiwi-dead-after-Nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
One Kiwi dead after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
One Kiwi dead after Nepal earthquake

Facebook Greg Kay, has died of a heart attack in the aftermath of Nepal's devastating earthquake

New Zealand trekker, Greg Kay, has died in the aftermath of Nepal's devastating earthquake.

Kay died on Sunday of a heart attack, while he stayed overnight with his New Zealand trekking group in the village of Tengboche. Peter Hillary, son of Sir Edmund Hillary, was leading the group of 12 including Kay, who were all long-time friends from their time at Kings College.



Auckland man Kay, 61, held a high career profile which included chief executive roles at the Coal Corporation of New Zealand (now Solid Energy) and Wrightson Limited, as well as directorships with Pacific Road Corporate Finance and Telecom.



He is the son of former Auckland mayor Colin Kay who founded the annual Auckland Round the Bays fun run and the New Zealand Sports Foundation.



The trekking group had been on their way to the Everest base camp, and had to turn back because of the earthquake. They were in Nepal to raise money for a new water system at the north-eastern village of Lukla, home to the Tenzing-Hillary Airport.



Prime Minister John Key said the death was not directly caused by the 7.8- magnitude shake, but may have been a heart attack.



Greg Kay is survived by his wife, Sudy, two adult sons and a granddaughter.

READ MORE:



* 16 Kiwis missing in Nepal

* Nepal earthquake devastation from above

* How to donate money to Nepal for earthquake aid

* Nepal's tragedy grows clearer, death toll tops 4,200

* Christchurch-born woman among missing after Nepal earthquake

* stuff.co.nz Nepal Earthquake Appeal

New drone video offers a unique bird's eye perspective of the devastation left by Saturday's earthquake in Nepal.

Reports from officials said that as many as 4200 had died in the quake, and reports trickling in from remote areas suggested the death toll would rise significantly. More than 6500 were injured.

Another 66 were killed across the border in India and at least another 20 in Tibet, China's state news agency said.

Thousands have camped out in tents after their houses crumbled and more than 200 climbers were rescued after avalanches swept down Mount Everest.

OMAR HAVANA / Getty Images Rescue team members search for bodies in the debris of a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu, Nepal.

"The best information we have is that the numbers are obviously rising in terms of the death toll...the position is, as I understand it is that it is possible that a New Zealander has lost their life but not because of the earthquakes per se, for want of a better term: natural causes," Key said from Dubai, where he is leading a trade delegation.

16 Kiwis are currently listed as missing in the disaster.

stuff.co.nz Nepal Earthquake Appeal



Photo Credit: Digital Globe.

Satellite imagery of Kathmandu before (left) and after (right) the devastating 7.8 earthquake which struck the region on Saturday. Scroll down for a more before and after pictures of the devastation.



Photo Credit: Google and Getty Images.

Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu.



Photo Credit: Digital Globe

An aerial view of Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu.



Photo Credit:Twitter users @sirish_shrestha and @thedarjchron.

The village of Barpak in Nepal.





RUNNING FOR HER LIFE

Aucklander Elizabeth Farrington raced uphill to escape the avalanche caused by the devastating Nepal earthquake.

She was walking up the Khumbu Glacier, near Mt Everest, and was on a rock outcrop at 5200 metres when the massive quake struck about noon (local time) on Saturday.

JOST KOBUSCH/YouTube A German mountaineer has captured the moment an avalanche hit his base camp on Mt Everest following the devastating Nepal earthquake.

"We all thought we slipped at the same time, then the ground began to boil," Farrington, 24, said in an email to her parents.

The quake was soon followed by an avalanche that killed at least 18 people.

"Crouched against the ground, we saw the cloud of snow screaming down ... Tek, our guide, screamed at us to run. Walking uphill at that altitude is the hardest thing I've ever done. Sprinting was going to kill me if the avalanche didn't".

"My heart felt like it was going to explode and my legs were lead. Knowing there were only a couple more steps in me, I dropped by a rock big enough to hold and pulled my knees under my chest.

"The snow hit and it was deafening. But we had got far enough and there was only about 8cm."

Everyone in the group had agreed to turn back to Gorak Shep, a hamlet about 4km down the valley from the base camp.

"Five minutes later and we felt the next tremor and we were running through a gully. All I was thinking was, 'Not now. I survived the first, don't take me on the second.'

"We [trudged] down through the valley and with GS [the village] in sight, the call to run came the third time. My body had nothing left," Farrington said.

"Then I felt a hand on my pack pushing me forward. This turned into the most needed hug of my life when we got the all-clear."

Her father Chris Farrington, in Auckland, said within about 15 minutes of the quake Elizabeth had managed to phone him, which had been a big relief.

"She managed to grab five seconds on someone's satellite phone," he said. She was heading out of the area and hoped to be in Kathmandu on Wednesday.

stuff.co.nz Nepal Earthquake Appeal

- Stuff
</text>