<url>
http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/27/asia/nepal-earthquake-mount-everest/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Video: Panic as avalanche hits Mount Everest Base Camp
</headline>

<text>
(CNN) A mammoth wave of snow darkens the sky over Everest Base Camp. Appearing like a white mushroom cloud roaring over the climbers, they scurry as their tents flap like feathers in the wind. Then panic hits.

"Whoa! Whoa!" Screams and expletives are heard.

The few people in the video scatter and dive into a tent as the deluge of snow falls over them. Cursing and breathing heavily, they wait until the pounding is over.

After a while, they scream to each other, "Are you all right?"

"Are you OK?"

The camera jostles back and forth as German climber Jost Kobusch heaves to catch his breath.

When they finally emerge from their avalanche ordeal, their faces are scarlet and their bodies crusted in snow. They trudge away, completely dazed and shocked.

"The ground was shaking from the earthquake and as soon as we saw people running, we were running ourselves to save our lives," Kobusch wrote in a post on his YouTube video.

The harrowing two-minute clip shows the unimaginable scale of the avalanche that smashed into Everest Base Camp on Saturday. At least 17 people have been killed, with dozens injured and several missing -- likely buried beneath the snow and ice.

The fates of the climbers and the local hires are one part of the enormous human toll in Nepal from the catastrophic quake that has so far claimed the lives of more than 4,300 people. At least 8,000 people were reported to have suffered injuries.

Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64

Helicopter rescues in the mountains

Helicopters brought stranded climbers off the mountain Monday amid growing concern for the groups stuck around 20,000 feet (6,100 meters) high in Camps 1 and 2. The climbers who were higher up Everest appeared to have avoided the deadly avalanche that struck Base Camp, but many -- estimated to be in the hundreds -- could not descend on their own.

The climbers can't head down because the dangerous Khumbu Icefall has been ravaged by a series of aftershocks. The aftershocks sent snow and rocks thundering down the mountainside, complicating rescue efforts.

Tshering Sherpa, who manages the icefall route, estimated that 100 to 200 people were stuck in the higher camps after the avalanche.

"Bottom line, the icefall has been deemed impassable at this point," said Alan Arnette, a climber and Everest blogger who was at Camp 2 when the avalanche struck. He said that climbers at Camp 2 and others higher up would descend to Camp 1 (elevation 19,500 feet) to await helicopters.

Arnette was helicoptered down to Base Camp on Monday.

http://t.co/6Nr40nxj2C Arrived at a Everest High Camp.Thanks for joining Alzheimer's Prevention Registry at http://t.co/P79QzIJdsS — Alan Arnette (@alan_arnette) April 27, 2015

Witnesses said three helicopters rescued climbers and Sherpas from Camp 1, taking two people down at a time.

Carsten Pedersen, a Danish climber at Base Camp, said that he heard a steady stream of helicopters ferrying people from the mountains back to Base Camp throughout the morning.

"They land every 10 minutes here," Pedersen said. "I estimate half the people have been rescued, and it's probably less than 200 people in the mountain this morning. I wouldn't be surprised if 100 people came down already."

The window for helicopter rescue was expected to be between 9 a.m. and noon Monday. The helicopter rescues are heavily contingent on the weather.

Jim Davidson, a climber on Everest, tweeted that the evacuations were going well.

Weather good on Everest. Evacuation of C1 & C2 going well. I am safe in basecamp now ...the injuries, fatalities & tr http://t.co/2g7JdsV1mH — Jim Davidson (@ClimberJim) April 27, 2015

Down at Base Camp, Jamlins Sherpa said he counted about 22 body bags that were to be transported back to their families in Kathmandu. The death toll on Everest is still unclear.

'Massive loss of life'

In an audio blog recorded from Camp 2, Arnette signed off with this message: "It's important, it's not about mountaineering. This is about the earth and it's a horrible loss of life at Everest Base Camp and down at Kathmandu.

"It's a massive loss of life."

A member of Arnette's team, Eve Girawong, a medic from New Jersey who worked on the mountain, was killed at Base Camp, according to her family and employer.

Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter on Sunday, April 26, at Everest base camp. The bodies of those who died lie under orange tents. The devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday set off avalanches that left large numbers of climbers dead, missing, injured or trapped on Mount Everest. Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche An injured person is carried by rescuers on April 26 to be airlifted by helicopter at Everest base camp. Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Rescue team personnel carry an injured person toward a waiting rescue helicopter on April 26 at Everest base camp. Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche An injured person is carried by rescuers on April 26 to be airlifted by helicopter at Everest base camp. Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche An injured person is helped to a landing area on April 26. Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Night falls after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest base camp. Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche A cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies toward Everest base camp on Saturday, April 25. The avalanche flattened part of the camp in the Himalayas. Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Expedition guide Pasang Sherpa runs toward flattened tents on April 25 in search of survivors, shortly after an avalanche that flattened parts of Everest base camp. Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Rescuers look for survivors on April 25. Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche People look at the devastation on April 25 after the avalanche. Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche A man approaches the wreckage at the camp on April 25. Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Rescuers carry a Sherpa injured by the avalanche on April 25. Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Banja, a porter working for a trekking company, breathes from a mask as he recovers after being injured by the avalanche on April 25. Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Everest base camp is seen on April 25 after the avalanche. Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche A wide view of the destruction at the camp is seen on April 25 after the quake. Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche People sort through wreckage near Everest base camp on April 25. Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Earthquake triggers Everest avalanche Everest base camp is seen on April 25 after the avalanche. Hide Caption 17 of 17

Several Everest climbing teams have confirmed deaths. Five Nepali staff members were killed at Everest Base Camp and Camp 1, according to Adventure Consultants. It did not identify the staffers.

Three Sherpas from the 360 Expeditions team died, the company posted on its Facebook page. Their names were also not revealed.

The foreign casualties at Everest Base Camp include Dan Fredinburg, an American executive at Google who died after suffering a major head injury, and Tom Taplin, a documentary filmmaker from California.

"He was blown away by the blast rather than being buried in any rubble," Taplin's wife, Corey Freyer, told CNN affiliate KABC.

The exact number of dead remains unclear.
</text>