<url>
http://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/2015/04/27/nepali-orphanage-mississippi-ties/26459471/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepali orphanage has Mississippi ties
</headline>

<text>
A Nepalese family collects belongings from their home destroyed in Saturday's earthquake, in Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal, Monday, April 27, 2015. A strong magnitude earthquake shook Nepal’s capital and the densely populated Kathmandu valley on Saturday devastating the region and leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (Photo: Niranjan Shrestha/AP)

As the death toll from Saturday's earthquake in Nepal rises, a Mississippi adoption agency waits to hear word of 10 children in a Kathmandu orphanage.

Tom Velie, president of New Beginnings Adoption Agency in Tupelo, Mississippi, said he has not been in contact with the orphanage since the aftershocks began.

The 7.8 earthquake happened about 50 miles northwest Kathmandu, just before noon local time. Sunday, an aftershock hit. So far, more than 3,300 deaths have ben confirmed.

Velie said he was speaking with the orphanage's director, Bobby Adhikari, Saturday around 5 a.m. Mississippi time when the line went dead. Numerous calls to Adhikari's cell phone as well as the orphanage's home phone and a neighboring hotel phone have gone unanswered.

"All I heard before we were cut off is that everyone is safe in the home," Velie said Monday morning. "I presume that the communication system or their power system are out because it's saying their phones are off."

In addition to the ten children, four adults live in the three-story concrete home. The children range in age from four to 14. Located approximately a half mile from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, the orphanage is in a "slightly less dense" and residential area, Velie said.

New Beginnings, which is licensed for international adoption in Mississippi and Tennessee, opened the orphanage in 2009. However, when then United States State Department suspended adoption of abandoned Nepali children in 2010, Velie briefly considered closing the orphanage. Adhikari begged Velie to keep the orphanage open, noting the children would be turned on the street otherwise. Before the quake, more than 900,000 Nepali children were orphans.

Citing the infrastructure, lack of resources and way of life on the street for orphans in Nepal, Velie said, "It's the worst place I've ever been in my life."

He kept the orphanage open.

Starkville resident Karyn Brown has a different take on Nepal. Brown adopted her son from Nepal in 2011, after the state department closed adoptions. Brown spent two months in the country and fought to bring her son back to the United States. During her time there, Brown said she fell in love with Nepal and its people.

"The people and country of Nepal, it's just amazing," Brown said. "They are the most giving, generous people you will ever meet."

Brown adopted her son from an orphanage in the Lalitpur District outside Katmandu. In the aftermath of the quake, Brown said she has tried to keep in touch with the orphanage through social media but it's ben difficult with the limited internet access.

All of the approximately 40 children who live in the orphanage are safe, Brown said. While the building survived, it did receive some structural damage. The children are sleeping outside for fear that another aftershock could bring the building down, she said. Food and water are limited. The children are sleeping in the rain.

"They talk about how scared everybody is but everybody is ok," she said. "It's just shock and fear. Fear is the word that keeps coming up."

Relief is coming, she's been told but it's "very very slow." Brown said when she thinks of the magnitude of the damage it brings her to tears.

"When I think about the structures and how close in proximity…it's mind boggling to think of an earthquake in a location like that," she said. "I'm just prayerful that humanitarian aid can get to them as quickly as possible. I do realize that when it's crisis mode, people are jumping to help and I just hope that that will continue. This country is going to need help for a long time."

She added, "You are not going to meet a nicer, sweet group of people. No body deserves this. "

Wednesday, New Beginnings Vice Chairman Bill Rosser is heading into Nepal to check on the status of the orphanage.

While they don't know what Rosser will find once he arrives, Velie said he has faith everyone will still be unharmed.

"I have a strong faith in God so I just believe this is part of life," Velie said. "This is partly what happens in life and we have to trust that God's providence will be with us whatever the case may be."

Contact Sarah Folwer at sfowler@gannett.com or (601) 961-7303. Follow @FowlerSarah on Twitter.

Read or Share this story: http://on.thec-l.com/1GywSo0
</text>