<url>
http://blackburnnews.com/london/2015/04/27/canadas-dart-prepares-to-help-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Canada's DART Prepares to Help in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Canada’s DART Prepares to Help in Nepal

Canada is on its way to help survivors of the earthquake in the Himalayan region.

An advance unit of the military’s Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) left C-F-B Trenton last night, in preparation to being deployed to Nepal.

The transport plane carrying search and rescue personnel, medics and engineers is also loaded with 3600 kilograms of medical supplies and relief aid, and a water purification system. The assessment unit will first head to Nepal to determine how the DART team can best be used, with a full team to be deployed to Kathmandu shortly after that.

Meanwhile, rescue workers in Nepal are having trouble reaching devastated villages.

An official in Kathmandu says there’ve been nearly 100 aftershocks following Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 quake.

And the death toll continues to rise. Police say it now exceeds 3300 people. That total includes more than 3200 in and around Kathmandu, at least 18 in an associated avalanche that smashed a base camp at Mount Everest. At least 61 people have also been killed in India and 20 in Tibet.

“We don’t feel safe at all. There have been so many aftershocks. It doesn’t stop,” said Rajendra Dhungana, 34, who spent the day with his niece’s family for her cremation at the Pashuputi Nath Temple in Kathmandu. “I’ve watched hundreds of bodies burn. I never thought I’d see so many … Nepal should learn a lesson from this. They should realize proper buildings should be built. There should be open spaces people can run to.”

The capital city is largely a collection of small, poorly constructed brick apartment buildings. But outside of the oldest neighbourhoods, many in Kathmandu were surprised by how few modern structures collapsed in the quake.

While aid workers cautioned that many buildings could have sustained serious structural damage, it was also clear that the death toll would have been far higher had more buildings caved in.

Aid workers also warned that the situation could be far worse near the epicenter west of Kathmandu. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was centred near Lamjung, about 80 kilometres (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu.

As planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighbouring countries arrived at Kathmandu’s airport, thousands of Indians lined up outside in hopes of gaining a seat on a plane returning to New Delhi.

One of those fleeing, 32-year-old tailor Assad Alam, said he and his wife and daughter were leaving with heavy hearts.

“It was a very difficult decision. I have called this home for seven years. But you have to think about the family, about your child.”

The earthquake was the worst to hit the South Asian nation in more than 80 years. Nepal’s worst recorded earthquake in 1934 measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.

Rescuers aided by international teams spent Sunday digging through rubble of buildings — concrete slabs, bricks, iron beams, wood — to look for survivors. Because the air was filled with chalky concrete dust, many people wore breathing masks or held shawls over their faces.

The quake will probably put a huge strain on the resources of this impoverished country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.
</text>