<url>
http://www.sheknows.com/living/articles/1082240/how-you-can-help-the-nepal-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
How you can help the Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
Print

Just 48 hours ago, the worst earthquake to hit Nepal in 80 years struck, leaving thousands dead and untold numbers of lives completely devastated.

The 7.8 magnitude earthquake's damage is still being evaluated, but what's clear is that the people of Nepal need our help. Here's a list of the best places to donate to help these devastated earthquake victims halfway around the world.

1. Red Cross

Donate to the Red Cross, which is already mounting an emergency response across Nepal. It is also trying to help connect loved ones who lost communication following the earthquake by asking people to register on its website under the chilling "I am alive" link. You can also add names of missing persons.

2. Save the Children

The agency is flying in emergency teams right now to Nepal. Save the Children reports it already has staff in 63 districts handing out emergency kits.

3. UNICEF

As the children's agency of the United Nations, UNICEF says that more than 1 million children in Nepal need help. UNICEF says it is readying 120 tons of aid to be delivered to Kathmandu, including medical supplies, tents and blankets.

4. Doctors Without Borders

One thing they desperately need in Nepal is medical staff and supplies. Doctors Without Borders says it has already mobilized a response team, including surgical teams.

5. Mercy Corps

The agency already has 90 staffers on the ground in Nepal, including many who have lost their homes in the earthquake, handing out household supplies and tarps for shelter.

6. OXFAM

OXFAM is working on getting water and sanitation supplies to those who need it in the earthquake-ravaged areas of Nepal. According to the organization, aftershocks are continuing to cause damage. Telephone, electricity, water and basic sanitation are all a top priority, according to a statement released by the agency.

7. International Medical Corps

The International Medical Corps is taking donations to support the operation of a Mobile Medical Unit (MMU) near the epicenter of the earthquake, near Gorkha, and will work to expand the efforts.

8. PayPal Giving Fund

The online payment company said it will eliminate fees for donations to the Nepal rescue effort, so you can take advantage of secure online donations to help the victims of the Nepal earthquake without the fee.

No matter where you donate, please take the time to give what you can today to help the people of Nepal recover and start to rebuild the lives they've lost.

More on natural disasters

How to talk to your kids about natural disasters

Prep your home for a natural disaster

Anxiety: Should we fear natural disasters and global unrest?
</text>