<url>
http://www.journalgazette.net/blog/the-scoop/Verbatim----IPFW-organization-to-raise-money-for-quake-victims-6333102
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Verbatim: IPFW organization to raise money for quake victims
</headline>

<text>
IPFW issued this news release tonight:

FORT WAYNE, Ind -- Club Kathmandu, a Nepali student organization at Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne (IPFW), is planning a three day fundraiser to collect money and supplies for victims of Saturday’s earthquake in Nepal.

The fundraiser will take place from 10:00 am until 4:00 pm on Tuesday, April 28 through Thursday, April 30. Donations can be dropped off at the Club Kathmandu table in the IPFW Alumni Plaza (next to Walb Union). Donations will also be accepted in the Office of International Education (Walb Union, room 145).

There will also be a vigil held for the victims at 5:00 pm on Thursday, April 30, in the IPFW Alumni Plaza.

100% of all money raised will go to icanafford.org, an international NGO that already has teams on the ground in Nepal, China, Bhutan, Bangladesh, and India.

Geeta Buda, IPFW student and president of Club Kathmandu, had already planned a trip to her home country for a family wedding. Although the wedding has since been cancelled, she is still making the trip. She is asking for donations of basic supplies such as surgical masks, chlorine tablets, and high-calorie energy bars. She will take back with her and distribute them to those in need. She will be in Nepal for 3 weeks until May 28.

The earthquake registered as 7.8 on the Richter scale, and has already claimed more than 4,000 lives. That number is expected to rise drastically in the coming days as rescue efforts move into the remote regions that haven’t been contacted yet.

The members of Club Kathmandu issued the following statement:

"In light of the devastating earthquake that shook Nepal and parts of India, Bangladesh, Tibet, China, and other neighboring countries, our thoughts and concerns go out to the families and loved ones of our IPFW family who may have been impacted by this disaster. Up to now, thousands of people have been confirmed dead, and the casualties are expected to go up. Thousands of injured are in desperate need of medical attention. Scores have lost their homes and are literally on the streets in need of food, warm clothes and medicine. So we, the Nepali students at IPFW, are planning to have an event in the memory of the people who have lost their lives. A donation drive for the victims will also run on campus the week of April 27-May 1."

For more information, please contact Brian Mylrea, Director of the Office of International Education at 260-481-6923, or mylreab@ipfw.edu. Those interested can also follow the IPFW Office of International Education on Facebook, or on Twitter: @IPFWOIE.
</text>