<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/world/nepal-quake-rain-brings-threat-of-disease-2015042909
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Rain brings threat of disease
</headline>

<text>
By 3 News online staff / NZN

The death toll in Nepal from the weekend's magnitude 7.8 earthquake has risen to 5057 people, but the country's Prime Minister is warning it could top 10,000.

Thousands slept on the streets of Kathmandu last night, where both food and water are in short supply. Many have lost their houses, others too terrified to return home after several powerful aftershocks.

With just plastic sheets to protect them from the elements, they are desperate for aid and information on what to do next.

"We've been staying here for three days, living under canvas. We're counting every bite we eat, every drop we drink," says 28-year-old housewife Rama Shrestha, camping out with her five-year-old son.

Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with morgues overflowing and medics working flat out to cope with an endless stream of victims suffering trauma or multiple fractures.

And with the weather turning bad, there are growing concerns about the spread of disease.

"When it started raining this afternoon I was getting quite concerned – the problems are that the sewerage is most likely broken," says aid worker Tom Allen. "The sewer pipes are probably polluting the ground water, and that can leave serious medical problems, obviously."

3 News correspondent Mike McRoberts told TV3's Paul Henry programme via phone this morning the situation on the ground today is no better than it was yesterday.

"I spent half the day [in a displacement camp] and they have nothing. They are living in makeshift tents, they don't have clean water, food is pretty scarce and everyone is very angry with the Government here for its lack of support."

McRoberts says if conditions are this bad in the capital, one can "only hope for the best" for the outer lying villages. Dozens are still cut off to relief efforts after landslides cut off roads, but some have been reached by helicopter.

Read more:

In a televised address late Tuesday (local time), Prime Minister Sushil Koirala declared three days of national mourning for the 5057 people known to have perished in Nepal alone.

"Appeals for rescues are coming in from everywhere," a statement from Mr Koirala's office quoted him as saying.

"But we have been unable to initiate rescue efforts in many areas at the same time due to lack of equipment and rescue experts."

But experts from Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) were stood down yesterday, told by the Nepalese government not to come because Kathmandu Airport couldn't handle any more planes.

National manager Gavin Travers says it wasn't surprising, "given the chaos".

"The Nepalese government have got the right – and so they should – for organising and arranging the sovereignty of their country. For so many aid agencies – including USAR – to respond so quickly into the country, it means the logistical nightmare for them at the airport is horrendous."

Mr Travers says the many aftershocks hitting Nepal are as strong as the February, 2011 quake that devastated Christchurch.

If Nepal changes its mind and invites USAR in, Mr Travers says they will be happy to help.

Despite the difficulties, countries far and wide have joined the relief effort in what is one of Asia's poorest countries, with neighbouring India playing a leading role.

In Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, terrified residents ran with outstretched arms towards an Indian army helicopter to plead for food and water.

Meanwhile, the United Nations has announced it will release US$15 million from its emergency fund to help kick-start relief operations in the earthquake-ravaged region.

"This will go to support to UN agencies to meet emergency needs that include... food, water, medication, but also logistical support," said Jens Laerke, spokesman for the UN humanitarian agency OCHA.

A UN flash fundraising appeal to donors will also be launched in coming days, he told reporters in Geneva.

"This is a race against time. It is also a race against a moving target, in the sense that we also do not have a full assessment of the needs and the requirements in the rural areas outside of Kathmandu," he said.

UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos has appointed OCHA's resident co-ordinator in Nepal, James McGoldrick, to oversee the co-ordination of the relief response, Laerke said.

The massive quake on Saturday was the Himalayan nation's deadliest disaster in more than 80 years, killing over 5000 people and causing massive destruction. More than 100 people died in neighbouring countries such as India and China.

More than 10,000 people have been injured while the UN estimates 8 million people have been affected, including 1.3 million children in urgent need of humanitarian aid.

3 News / NZN

source: newshub archive
</text>