<url>
http://www.breakingnews.ie/world/the-unimaginable-forces-in-play-beneath-nepal-674623.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
The unimaginable forces in play beneath Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The mighty Himalayas are the clearest sign that Nepal lies in one of the most dangerous earthquake zones on Earth.

They mark a region of geologic upheaval where two tectonic plates – massive sections of the Earth’s crust that fit together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle – are pressing together, generating unimaginable forces.

David Rothery, professor of planetary geosciences at the Open University, explained how without the buckling rock, Mount Everest and its companion mountains would not exist today.

Prof Rothery said: “What’s happening is that the northern region of India, which broke away from Africa tens of millions of years ago, is colliding with central Asia. India is trying to move northwards by four or five centimetres per year. This has thrown up the Himalayas – the front leading edge of India is being thrust back over itself.

“If India finally ground to a halt relative to Asia, the Himalayas would erode down. But as well as being eroded away at a rate of several millimetres a year, they’re still being pushed up.

“It more or less balances out. If that wasn’t happening, the mountains would have disappeared in about 10 million years, but they’re still there.

“The strain along the fault line builds up and suddenly lets rip. We’re talking about roughly 80 years-worth of strain since the last major earthquake occurred in the 1930s. All these aftershocks that are occurring are nearby bits of the fault letting rip as well.”

At a prescient recent meeting of seismologists in Kathmandu, experts discussed the prospects of a big earthquake happening because there had not been one for decades, said Prof Rothery.

But he stressed that predicting major earthquakes is incredibly difficult, even with sophisticated computer modelling.

“You can get small tremors on a regular basis but these big earthquakes happen out of the blue,” he said. “Sometimes some of the strain can be released by lots of little earthquakes, but you can’t rely on that happening.

“When some time has passed without a major earthquake, people get complacent. Those responsible for building construction can’t afford to protect them against earthquakes and don’t bother.

“I think we’ll get better at identifying places where earthquakes might happen, but as for giving people a week’s warning to get out of an area, that’s unlikely.”

He continued: “You can do it with volcanoes because usually volcanic activity ramps up over time. With earthquakes, the only warning is that something hasn’t happened for a long time.

“Knowing if an earthquake’s going to hit this week, or in a year or 20 years time – that’s very hard.

“There are myths about animals migrating and strange lights in the sky. But earthquakes are unpredictable, they happen catastrophically and very quickly. It’s like if you take a 12in plastic ruler and repeatedly bend it – you know it’s going to snap at some point but you can’t tell when. With earthquakes it’s very similar.

“It’s very complicated. You can try modelling earthquakes, but no model is going to be perfect.

“People have suggested lubricating the rock structure by pumping water down but that’s likely to cause a series of small earthquakes, which is going to get you sued.”

Shallow earthquakes cause more shaking than deep ones and therefore more human-scale devastation.

At nine miles deep, the 7.8 magnitude Nepal quake fell into the “shallow” category. But Prof Rothery said the death toll might have been even worse had Kathmandu not been built on relatively solid rock, which to some extent protected against the kind of movement that can topple buildings. It was also highly fortunate that schools in the Nepalese capital were closed when the earthquake struck.

However, the professor believes the death toll is likely to rise as news filters in from villages in more remote regions.

“A major hazard is landslides,” he said. “We still don’t know how many villages have been buried. The death toll went up by 1,000 or so overnight and it will carry on creeping up.”

He maintained there is no scientific foundation for suggestions that the threat from earthquakes is increasing.

“There’s no evidence that earthquakes are getting stronger or occurring more frequently, but they have been reported more widely,” he said.

“Twitter has made us all more alert to these things.

“People have looked at the statistics and found no long-term trend, although you’re going to have some years that are worse than others.”
</text>