<url>
http://www.frasercoastchronicle.com.au/news/nepal-girls-need-help/2620786/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Eight girls still missing from Forget Me Not Children's home
</headline>

<text>
Coming from Newcastle in New South Wales, Carlie completed an arts degree before moving to the Fraser Coast. She has been with the Chronicle since 2007.

UPDATE: Three of the 11 girls in the care of Forget Me Not Child's Home who were missing after the Nepal earthquake have been located overnight.

One of the home's reintegration officers, Surendra, worked tirelessly through the night trying to locate the girls, despite the fact that he had lost several relatives and his home during the earthquake.

Although the Forget Me Not organisation celebrated the news overnight on their Facebook page, they were quick to add that eight of their children were still unaccounted for and the search would continue throughout Tuesday.

"A huge thank you to our team who are working tirelessly to confirm our girls or OK," the post read.

The charity is hoping to raise $55,000 to help their girls during this difficult time and to fund the cost of rebuilding the orphanage where five of their girls live, which lost a side wall during the earthquake. It's believed its foundations may also be unstable.

To donate, visit wwww.fotgetmenot.org.au/nepal-earthquake to pledge your support.

EARLIER: TEN years ago, the Fraser Coast community threw open its hearts and wallets to help build the Forget Me Not Children's Home in Nepal.

Now they need us more than ever, after the devastating earthquake that destroyed countless homes and buildings, and killed more than 3600 people.

The orphanage building has been damaged, but even more alarmingly, 11 of the Forget Me Not foundation's children are unaccounted for.

They need $55,000 urgently to keep their children safe, sheltered and fed while Nepal rebuilds from this tragedy.

The people of the Fraser Coast have helped before.

Now they need us again.

For the past decade the Fraser Coast has supported girls who found themselves in desperate need on the streets of Nepal.

When the Forget Me Not Children's Home was founded by Hervey Bay's Lars Olsen, the region threw its collective support behind the initiative, making sure those children, thousands of kilometres away, had shelter and food.

Now they need us more than ever. The 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal at the weekend and the death toll has continued to rise.

Andrea Nave, chief executive officer of the Forget Me Not Children's home, said the five girls living at the orphanage were alive.

But at least 11 girls in the care of Forget Me Not who have been placed with families in and around Kathmandu are missing and it is unclear whether they survived the quake.

In addition to their concerns regarding the girls in their care, Ms Nave said the side wall of the home had been destroyed and its foundations were believed to be unstable, meaning the girls currently had nowhere to live.

Members of the Forget Me Not staff have been accounted for and have started to search for the missing children.

"We are desperately trying to contact (the missing children)," Ms Nave said.

Ms Nave, who is based in Brisbane, only recently returned from Nepal and said she had a vision of the girls in her mind, happy, healthy and proud of how far they had come.

Now she envisions the total devastation that the girls and their families are facing.

A contact in Nepal managed to get a message to Ms Nave. Its contents were horrifying.

The message described the chaos, with death and bodies all around and people sleeping rough on the street, fearful of powerful aftershocks.

A 6.7 magnitude aftershock had already shaken Kathmandu in the days since the initial quake and Ms Nave said it was likely there could be more.

"Exposure to the elements and aftershocks is forcing already terrified and injured people to sleep huddled on the street in fear of aftershocks and more building collapse," she said.

"We are being asked to give shelter, warmth and food for families in Kathmandu right now and are asking the public to help make this happen.

"We can help 15 families long term and keep them together with around $55,000.

"But with more funds we can reach out to more families and ease their suffering and help them rebuild their lives.

"The good folks of the Fraser Coast know this is possible and have proudly supported Forget Me not for 10 years."

Mr Olsen also recently returned from Nepal and said part of him wished he was still there, able to help in some way, although his family was understandably relieved he had returned home before the devastation of the earthquake.

A 10-year anniversary celebration of the inception of the Forget Me Not Children's Home would now become a fundraising effort, Ms Nave said.

The event will be held at the Beach House Hotel in Hervey Bay from 6.30pm on May 16.

Ms Nave said if the group exceeds its goal, any leftover funding would be used to fuel vital humanitarian work in Kathmandu.

DONATE NOW:

Help is needed - visit www.forgetmenot.org.au/nepal-earthquake to pledge your support
</text>