<url>
http://www.hepburnadvocate.com.au/story/3038378/daylesford-family-of-four-missing-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Missing family found well in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Jen and Francis Comber with their daughters Rani and Neve. PICTURE: Jen Comber

UPDATE 3.30PM: The Daylesford family feared harmed in the massive earthquake over the weekend has made contact with their relatives in Australia.

Jen Comber and her daughters Neve and Rani spoke with Kate Good, Ms Comber's sister-in-law, on Monday.

"Just spoke to Jen and the girls. They are alive and well," Ms Good said.

"We are all so happy."

The trekking company that organised their trip in the Tsum had earlier confirmed their location and good health, Ms Good said.

"We have had a couple of emails from the trekking company stating they are alive and well," she said.

The Comber family, which also includes Ms Comber's husband Francis, was feared hurt by the quake because of their estimated proximity to the epicentre.

UPDATE 1.30PM: A DAYLESFORD family listed as missing in earthquake ravaged Nepal may have been located.



The company which organised the Comber family's holiday believe the family is safe in the Tsum Valley.

Jen and Francis Comber and their daughters Rani and Neve were planning to trek for three weeks in the valley, which was near the epicentre of the 7.9 magnitude earthquake.

"We've had contact with the trekking company and they seem to be trying to communicate that they had been located," Ms Comber's brother Jeff Brownscombe told ABC Radio on Monday.

"It's unconfirmed at this stage, it was very broken and limited conversation."

A Ballarat man who has travelled to Nepal more than 20 times in the last 15 years said it would become harder for people to make contact with home as the days go on.

"The difficulty is communication. Most of Nepal seems to not have a lot of electricity in any case, and this has knocked out a lot of infrastructure," said Graeme Kent, whose charity Aussie Action Abroad builds schools and runs health program in Nepal.

He said in the first 48 hours following the earthquake many people still had working mobile phones, but it would be tough to keep them charged now.

"Roads are cut (between many villages), so we're not sure what the access is like either," he said.

Dozens of other Victorians remain unaccounted for.

EARLIER: A YOUNG family of four from Daylesford is missing following Saturday's devastating earthquake in Nepal.



Francis and Jen Comber and their two daughters Rani and Neve, were last in contact with their family a few weeks ago just before they began a trek in the Tsum Valley, north west of the capital Kathmandu.

Mr Comber's mother Dianne Comber said they had serious concerns about their welfare due to their close proximity to the earthquake's epicentre.

"They were trekking in the Tsum Valley, in the earthquake area," she said.

"No one's heard anything from them yet."

The remote areas and inhospitable terrain means contact is difficult in the best of times but the earthquake has knocked out communications infrastructure, making contact more difficult.

The latest on Daylesford teenager Liam Oliver, who is also missing in Nepal.

The family was on a long trip through Asia, arriving in Nepal after time in Laos, Thailand and Myanmar.



Ms Comber has been documenting their trip online.

In her most recent entry, from Laos on March 30, she wrote about their plans for Nepal.

"That's all for now, soon we will be in Nepal, but first a day in Bangkok to eat as much Thai street food as possible before we have to go," it read.

Mr Comber's sister Kate Hood listed them as missing on Sunday night.

She said Ms Comber's father, Howard Brownscombe, had been in contact with the Australian government and was also trying to establish exactly where in the Tsum Valley they could be.

"They've spoken to Howard, and he's trying to get in touch with the trekking company too," she said.

The adventurous family left Daylesford in February last year, taking a caravan along the eastern coast, before heading over to Thailand.

Ms Hood confirmed on Sunday evening they still had not heard from Francis and Jen.

Aftershocks have also made repair and recovery work difficult for the Nepali government and international helpers.



More than 300 Australians are still missing and The Courier understands that are people in the Ballarat region awaiting news of loved ones travelling in the area at the time of the earthquake.

Among those still unaccounted for is The Courier's much respected content director Eugene Duffy who left for Nepal three weeks ago. He is believed to be hiking in a remote part of the region.
</text>