<url>
http://www.sbs.com.au/news/article/2015/04/27/nepal-earthquake-how-you-can-help
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: How you can help
</headline>

<text>
A number of Australians have been reported missing following the deadly Nepal earthquake. (AAP)

Aid agencies are rushing to provide relief in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake in Nepal. Here's how you can help.

A massive 7.8-magnitude earthquake rocked Nepal on Saturday April 25. The death toll currently stands at more than 3,200 people, including at least 17 who were killed in an avalanche on Mount Everest.

A 6.7-magnitude aftershock the following day compounded the worst disaster to hit the impoverished Himalayan nation in more than 80 years.

Nepal has called for aid. Here's how you can donate to Australian-based legitimate funds:

The Red Cross has teams on the ground, searching for survivors in the rubble of collapsed buildings and performing first aid. The Red Cross blood bank is providing blood to medical facilities in Kathmandu and international response teams have been dispatched. Donate online or call 1800 811 700.

CARE Australia has nearly 150 local staff on the ground in Nepal and international emergency experts haev flown in to support the response. Lifesaving essentials such as shelter kits, water and food are being flown in and transported across the border from CARE India.

Caritas Australia staff are currently on the ground and working alongside Caritas Nepal staff to coordinate the emergency response, which will include providing emergency shelter, water and hygiene kits. Donate online or call 1800 024 413.

ChildFund Australia is working to provide urgent care and protection for children who’ve lost homes and loved ones. ChildFund, which has been working in Nepal for 20 years, is responding in Sindhupalchok district, one of the worst-affected areas.

Oxfam Australia has teams in Nepal assessing the damage and ready to respond with lifesaving essentials – clean water, sanitation and emergency food supplies.

Medicins Sans Frontieres Doctors Without Borders is sending eight teams to assist those affected by the earthquake, including a surgical team and mobile clinics to reach remote areas. Donate via the website or call 1300 13 60 61.

World Vision is sending tents, medicine and hygiene packs into Nepal. It has disaster management experts from Nepal, India and Bangladesh - on standby to provide relief assistance.

ActionAid Australia is working to provide clothes, drinking water and shelter facilities – particularly for children, young mothers and elderly and disabled people.

Save the Children, an organisation dedicated to helping children in 120 nations, also has a network in Nepal.

UNICEF which works to ensure that every child has a safe and healthy childhood, is on the ground in Nepal aiding children and families.

UNHCR is sending plastic sheets to shelter those who cannot return to their homes, solar lamps and emergency power generators for hospitals. Donate online or call 1300 361 288.

PLAN has launched a public appeal for children in Nepal in the wake of the disaster. Donate via the website or call 13 75 26.

If you are seeking information about someone in Nepal you can contact DFAT's 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 6261-3305 or, within Australia, on 1300 555 135 (local call cost).
</text>