<url>
http://www.rttnews.com/2487635/nepal-quake-death-toll-rises-to-3500-reoprts.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Quake Death Toll Rises To 3500: Reoprts
</headline>

<text>
The death toll of a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday has risen to 3500, reports quoting the Himalayan nation's authorities said.

More than 6,500 people have been injured, Nepal Home Ministry's national disaster management division chief Rameshwor Dangal was quoted as saying Monday.

In addition, thousands of people are reported to be without food, water or shelter.

The death toll is feared to rise as rescue teams reach remote mountainous areas of western Nepal, where many more are still missing, possibly under the rubbles of collapsed buildings and masses of land and roads that caved in.

The situation report says that 35 of the 75 districts in Nepal are reported to be affected by the earthquake. Dhading, Gorkha, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchowk, Kavre, Nuwakot, Dolakha, Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur, and Ramechhap are the worst affected districts.

The powerful quake, which was followed by at least 14 aftershocks, also jolted parts of India and Bangladesh.

The epicenter of the worst earthquake to hit Nepal for more than 80 years was 65 kilometers east of capital Kathmandu.

The quakes triggered an avalanche that swept through base camp at Mount Everest in the Himalayas of northern Nepal, where international mountaineers and their local guides were preparing to climb the world's highest peak.

Kathmandu international airport has been shut down due to high intensity quakes and Mobile services in the city have been badly-affected.

Several buildings, including centuries-old temples and towers, collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu.

Among them was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble.

Search and rescue efforts continue as teams from India, Pakistan, China and Israel have started work, and more are on their way from the US, the UK, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, the European Union and elsewhere, according to UN Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief chief, Valerie Amos.

Nepal's neighbor India is leading relief operations.

The United States has sent an Air Force aircraft to Nepal to deliver personnel and cargo in support of disaster-relief operations, according to Pentagon.

by RTT Staff Writer

For comments and feedback: editorial@rttnews.com

Business News
</text>