<url>
http://www.stamfordadvocate.com/local/article/Stamford-relief-group-helping-in-Nepal-6227184.php
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Stamford relief group helping in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Stamford relief group helping in Nepal

Stamford and Fairfield-based relief agencies were among the organizations rushing to join the international effort to aid victims of the devastating Nepal earthquake.

A three-person team from Stamford was set to leave Monday night for Nepal, said Donna Porstner, a spokeswoman for AmeriCares. An AmeriCares team from India is already on the ground distributing medicines and other supplies, she said.

The nonprofit plans to ship 20,000 pounds of medicines and relief supplies this week from its warehouse in Stamford along with additional supplies from a warehouse in Amsterdam.

As the death toll from the quake climbed past 4,000, aid workers and officials in remote, shattered villages near the epicenter pleaded for food, shelter and medicine. Buildings in parts of Kathmandu were reduced to rubble in Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake, and there were shortages of food, fuel, electricity and shelter.

Lila Mani Poudyal, the government's chief secretary and the rescue coordinator, said Nepal needed more help. He said the recovery was also being slowed because many workers -- water tanker drivers, electricity company employees and laborers needed to clear debris -- "are all gone to their families and staying with them, refusing to work."

More Information To aid the Nepali earthquake victims, donations may be made to:

Save the Children: savethechildren.org

American Nepal Society: http://americanepalsociety.org/

"We are appealing for tents, dry goods, blankets, mattresses, and 80 different medicines that the health department is seeking that we desperately need now," Poudyal told reporters. "We don't have the helicopters that we need or the expertise to rescue the people trapped."

As bodies were recovered Monday, relatives cremated the dead along the Bagmati River, and at least a dozen pyres burned late into the night.

Conditions were far worse in the countryside, with rescue workers still struggling to reach mountain villages two days after the earthquake. Some roads and trails to the Gorkha district, where the quake was centered, were blocked by landslides -- but also by traffic jams that regularly clog the route north of Kathmandu.

Save the Children of Fairfield also is among local organizations that have aid workers in place, and they are bringing relief equipment and supplies to the devastated area.

Brad Kerner, the public health director of Save the Children, who is in Nepal, said in a phone interview with WTIC Fox CT 61 that "the earth was rolling. It lasted almost a minute, the longest earthquake I've experienced.''

Kerner, a Fairfield resident, said there were three aftershocks on Sunday and it is raining in the Nepal capital.

"People are scared and trying to figure out how to meet their basic needs.''

Other local Connecticut residents also were caught up in the Nepal disaster.

The first news that Carl and Pam Stenger got that their daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren had survived the powerful earthquake that ripped through was on the Shelton woman's Facebook page.

Kristin Parker was at a farmer's market in Kathmandu, the capital, when the devastating quake struck Saturday -- and being outdoors contributed to her making it through unharmed, her parents said Monday.

"We were able to speak to her briefly earlier today and she and her husband Ryan and their children are in the U.S. Embassy, where they are being provided limited food and water," Carl Stenger said.

"Kristin said it's very chaotic, everybody is living outside, but that relief supplies are beginning to get through,'' he said.

The Stengers are close friends with Pramod Kandel, who fled Nepal in 2000, was granted political asylum by the U.S. and settled in Shelton. Kandel, who owns several businesses, including Baingan Restaurant on River Road in Shelton, brought his wife and children here a few years later.

A daughter is back in Kathmandu, overseeing the family's business interests there. When Kandel's daughter returned to her native country a few years ago, it was Kristin Parker who met her and the two women are now good friends.

"In a city of a million people, they were able to find each other, and it turned out they lived near each other,'' Pam Stegner said.

Kristin, a graduate of Shelton High School, met her husband at Charleston Southern College, and the couple, now in their mid-30s, have lived in Nepal for the past 10 years, working on development projects for the International Missionary Board. The non-governmental agency is affiliated with the Southern Baptist Church.

The Parkers have 7-year-old twins, Keane and Gracie, who are with them at the embassy. The family lived on the top floor of a five-story guesthouse, on the grounds of the Hyatt Regency Hotel and Ryan was able to go into their apartment and retrieve photos and mementos.

"The building itself is not habitable right now,'' Pam Stenger said. "But ironically, Kristin had trained about 20 local people in search and rescue measures a few weeks before,'' as part of an education program she runs.

The Parkers also operate a restaurant and a jewelry-making business to create economic opportunities for the Nepalis.

The Stengers just returned from Kathmandu a month ago, after an exhausting 20-hour flight, Pam said.

"We had to wear masks because the pollution is so bad,'' she said.

Kristin makes it home to Shelton every few years.

"Right now we're hoping that once things settle down that they all come back here for a good rest, to recharge and re-energize,'' Carl Stegner said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

fjuliano@ctpost.com, @FrankJuliano
</text>