<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/trending/thankyoupm-trends-on-twitter-post-indias-swift-response-to-nepal-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
#ThankYouPM trends on Twitter post India’s swift response to Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
PM Modi chairs review meeting in Delhi on Saturday post Nepal earthquake (Source: PTI)

In a sign of yet another wholehearted public backing for India’s diplomatic efforts, #ThankYouPM was trending at the top of Twitter on Monday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s swift and prompt response to a terrible earthquake that rattled Nepal on Saturday.

A screenshot of the Twitter’s India trends

The praise on Twitter comes weeks after India’s evacuation operations in war-torn Yemen under the leadership of External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj and MoS V K Singh were praised by all.

On Saturday, a massive earthquake, which measured 7.9 on the Richter scale, killed more than 3,600 people, injuring thousands and flattening several of Nepal’s mountainous villages. The first quake had also led to tremors in and around northern and eastern parts of India, leading to several deaths in the states of Bihar and West Bengal.

Students light candles and pray for people trapped in Nepal earthquake at the University of South China in Hengyang City, central China’s Hunan Province. (Source: Xinhua)

Within forty minutes of the first tremor, PM Modi’s avid social media skills were on full display as he came on Twitter and Facebook to assuage the nation that the government is already in process to reach out to those affected by the quake. Following the tremors, he also chaired a high-level meeting to review the situation.

News has come in about an Earthquake in Nepal. Several parts of India also experienced tremors. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

He also spoke to Nepal PM Sushil Koirala to assure India’s support and assistance in the hour of crisis and announced compensation packages for the families in India affected by the quake.

Spoke to PM Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. Assured all support & assistance during this tough time. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

GoI has announced a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to families of those who lost their lives in the Earthquake across parts of India. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 26, 2015

PM Modi’s associates in the cabinet were not far behind to respond to the crisis as well. Foreign Minister Sushma Swaraj, who was back from Indonesia on Saturday, was also active on social media tweeting important helpline numbers and responding individually to people asking for whereabouts of their missing family members.

Pl RT Indian Embassy in Kathmandu Helplines no.s : +977 9851107021, 9851135141 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) April 25, 2015

Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu too pitched in by promising to send 1 lakh Rail Neer bottles to Kathmandu.

As instructed by MR @sureshpprabhu, 1 lakh Rail Neer bottles being despatched to Kathmandu as relief by IR. Tonight. — Ministry of Railways (@RailMinIndia) April 25, 2015

The Indian Armed Forces, which worked extensively in Yemen’s crisis to bring back stranded Indians, was almost on the word go to head to Nepal. One of the first to leave for the Himalayan kingdom was a C-130 Superhercules, of the Indian Air Force which carried relief teams from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which was then followed by a C-17 Globemaster III with personnel and relief material.

#NepalEarthquake An IAF C-130 Superhercules with NDRF relief teams onboard is airborne for Kathmandu. More relief efforts underway. — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 25, 2015

More relief on the way. One C-17 Globemaster III airborne with NDRF personnel and relief material. — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 25, 2015

In a successful start to the relief operations, news came trickling in that the first planes bringing stranded Indians from Nepal had arrived in Delhi.

#NepalEarthquake C-130J carrying stranded Indians has landed at Palam a short while ago. — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) April 25, 2015

In an indicator of his commitment to building effective foreign relations, Sunday saw PM Modi hosting a ‘Mann ki baat’ (a radio show where he dwells upon certain issues) and reaffirming the fact that India “will do its best to wipe the tears of every Nepali.” He also spoke about how closely he had seen the destructive 2001 earthquake in Kutch, Gujarat which claimed close to 20,000 people. In the course of the show, PM Modi said his immediate objective was to pull as many people as possible from the clutches of death.

”India will do its best to wipe the tears of every Nepali, hold their hands and stand with them” – PM @narendramodi during Mann ki Baat’ — Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) April 26, 2015

Today, as several people on Twitter used the hashtag #ThankYouPM to convey gratitude to PM Modi and the government for India’s relief operations, the Prime Minister was humble in responding to the praise. He said it is the Indian culture that teaches us the value of ‘Seva Parmo Dharma’.

To all those saying #ThankYouPM– appreciate the sentiment…real thanks should be to our great culture, which teaches us ‘Seva Parmo Dharma’. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 27, 2015

He added that gratitude must also be offered to the fearless armed forces, doctors, volunteers and NDRF teams who are ‘overcoming every obstacle to restore normalcy in Nepal. He also praised the media for its coverage from the ground.

We must thank our armed forces, NDRF teams, doctors & all those volunteers who are overcoming every obstacle to restore normalcy in Nepal. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 27, 2015

Mention must be made of the media. They are bravely covering the disaster from the ground. Thanks! — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 27, 2015

Video of the day

For all the latest Trending News, download Indian Express App
</text>