<url>
http://www.ktxs.com/news/nepal-earthquake-how-you-can-help/32599762
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: How you can help
</headline>

<text>
Agencies worldwide are collecting funds to send to the earthquake ravaged regions of Nepal

Agencies worldwide are collecting funds to send to the earthquake ravaged regions of Nepal

KATHMANDU, Nepal - Aid workers are pleading for food, shelter, and medicine in the remote, shattered villages of Nepal.

As of Monday afternoon, more than 4,000 people are confirmed dead after the magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Saturday. The death toll is expected to continue to climb.

The small size of the airport in Kathmandu has made relief efforts difficult. Some earlier flights were forced to turn back.

Many relief groups worldwide are asking for monetary donations. Here is how you can help:

The Nepal Red Cross Society is the epicenter of the relief efforts and is a direct way to help the people of Nepal. Here is its online donation link; please note that their website connectivity is on and off, so you might not be able to get through.

The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) has begun collecting funds for emerging relief efforts response to the Nepal Earthquake, which will have a critical focus on medical relief and supply delivery to earthquake survivors. To support their efforts, donate online here.

AmeriCares has sent its response team to the impact zone and relief workers are preparing shipments of medical aid and relief supplies for survivors. You can help by donating online to their disaster relief fund.

CARE is on the ground and preparing to provide temporary shelter, ready-to-eat meals and water purification and latrine construction. You can learn more about their relief plans here or go directly to their donation page to help.

Catholic Relief Serves is accepting donations to help send relief materials such as shelter kits, water, sanitation and hygiene materials for the affected areas in Nepal and India.

Concern Worldwide is working to provide those in need in Nepal with needed emergency supplies for shelter, cooking and hygiene. You can specify which of these supplies you want to help provide, when you make your online donation.

Direct Relief is preparing and delivering medical resources to local health facilities that are seeing patient surges for quake-related conditions. They are also working with medical companies to secure additional supplies as needed. You can help these efforts with an online donation.

Global Giving has created a Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund to immediately help both local Nepalese nonprofits and international aid organizations. Supporters can donate online or text GIVE NEPAL to 80088 to donate $10.

Handicap International has been in Nepal since 2000 and the 47-person team is safe. They are providing wheelchairs and assistance to the local hospitals which they report are overwhelmed. You can go online to directly support their Nepal Earthquake Response.

The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) is preparing an emergency response operation and is prepping resources from its hubs in New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok. The federation is releasing funds from its Disaster Response Emergency Fund to support the initial emergency response, and you can further support their efforts by donating here.

International Medical Corps is on the ground coordinating their response and sending additional staff and resources to support relief efforts. You can support the Nepal Earthquake Response online, or by texting MED to 80888 to give $10.

MercyCorps has launched the Nepal Earthquake Response fund to help provide food, water and temporary shelter in the aftermath of this disaster.

Operation USA is undertaking recovery efforts in Nepal, providing essential supplies for those affected and hospitals in need. You can help their efforts by donating online or by texting AID to 50555 to donate $10.

Oxfam International is working to help provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food for those affected by this disaster. Donate via Oxfam America here. You can also donate through Oxfam Great Britain here.

Save the Children is working to protect vulnerable children and provide relief to families. You can donate online to directly support the Nepal Children's Emergency Relief Fund.

Samaritan's Purse is sending emergency shelter, water, hygiene kits, and other emergency supplies. They are also sending a medical team to offer assistance. You can support this by donating to their Nepal Earthquake Response fund.

UNICEF is working with the government and other partners to meet children's immediate needs in water and sanitation, protection, health and nutrition. You can help by donating online.

The World Food Programme is also responding, providing food to those in need. You can help efforts by donating online here.
</text>