<url>
http://www.watoday.com.au/wa-news/nepali-association-of-wa-pleads-for-help-with-earthquake-relief-effort-20150427-1muhlk.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepali Association of WA pleads for help with earthquake relief effort
</headline>

<text>
After making sure his parents survived the 7.9 magnitude earthquake in Nepal on Saturday, Bishnu Devkota lost no time in slamming together an emergency relief effort for the thousands now homeless and bereaved.

The Nepali Association of Western Australia president spent anxious hours trying to phone his parents in the Gorkha region, the epicentre of the quake that has killed more than 3200 people, and his siblings in Kathmandu.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link People sit on the rubble of a temple after the earthquake in Kathmandu. Photo: Reuters

Eventually he reached his brother who said their parents were unharmed, though their house had been damaged beyond repair.

The couple, aged 73 and 87, are taking shelter in a tent.

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link Nepali Association of Western Australia president Bishnu Devkota is busy pulling together relief efforts for quake-ravaged Nepal. Photo: Facebook

When Mr Devkota was eventually able to reach his mother on the phone she told him 90 per cent of their village was destroyed and three residents of the neighbouring village were dead.

"The sanitary situation is bad, everybody is out in the open, the whole situation is bad," he said.

Advertisement

"In the epicentre all the villages are destroyed and nobody knows anything about the people missing."

Mr Devkota said even as association members' phones ran hot in their efforts to get news of loved ones, they were joining his efforts and those of other Australian Nepalese organisations to create social media and dinner fundraisers and collect supplies.

A public collection point for blankets, water, clothing and tents rapidly piling up was underway and Mr Devkota was negotiating with airlines to take the supplies.

Honorary Consul of Nepal in Western Australia Fred Brown represents the Nepalese government and promotes Nepalese interests, tourism and cultural exchange, and so has close ties to the expatriate community in Perth.

"They are the most lovely people you would ever wish to meet," he said.

"They're kind, gentle and don't deserve the treatment they get from Mother Nature.

"There are villages in Nepal with no roads and no connection to the outside world that you can only get to by walking. They live very basic lives and it takes days for news to get out of these villages, so it will not even be clear yet what has happened to many.

"Everyone [in Perth] has been pretty preoccupied tracking down their own families and friends, and there is great sadness and severe upset – but they are already wanting to help ... the relief effort is going to take months, just setting up the tent cities and so on, and it will take years to repair the damage.

"I would ask all Australians to give generously to assist this poor country that has provided us with tens of thousands of very good citizens."

Visit facebook.com/pages/WA-Emergency-Relief-Fund-For-Nepal/872136936158881?fref=nf.


</text>