<url>
http://www.margaretrivermail.com.au/story/3038922/nepal-earthquake-perth-families-desperately-waiting-to-hear-from-loved-ones/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Perth families desperately waiting to hear from loved ones
</headline>

<text>
A number of WA families are clinging to hope their loves ones are still alive after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake rocked Nepal, killing more than 3,100 people.

At least 15 West Australians are still missing after a devastating earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday.

Brooke O'Keefe

Shelley Packard has been desperately trying to get hold of her daughter Brooke O'Keefe, who is one of 15 West Australians believed to be in the area when the quake hit.

Ms O'Keefe, 31, who had spent the last two years volunteering in orphanages in Nepal and India is one of 15 West Australian's still missing.

Ms Packard told ABC Radio on Monday morning a woman in Kathmandu had posted on Facebook she'd seen Brooke a day before the earthquake.

"She was seen with a guy called Ravi, she has been with him for a week," she said.

"There is this amazing woman called Angela, who has been doing a lot of work finding people... she has lots of friends in Kathmandu and she knows Ravi very well.

"She was speaking to Ravi on the phone - he said he'd been with Brooke, but didn't see her yesterday or the day of the quake, but then phone cut out.

"There has been no more communication since. It's been very frustrating."

Ms Packard said the family had been trying to make contact with Brooke through her Facebook friends.

She said the family last heard from Shelley last week when she was heading towards Kathmandu to meet friends.

"She's has been travelling for nearly two years," she said. "She has been travelling in NZ, Cambodia, India and Nepal

"The last time she was home was when her sister's twins were born in July."

Ballantyne Paige Forder

Another Perth volunteer - Ballantyne Paige Forder - who had been working at an orphanage in Kathmandu has been found alive.

Ms Forder's father Ben told Radio 6PR on Monday morning the family got a phone call from a friend of his daughter's on Sunday.

"A lady contacted her from London and she was able to get "Billie"... she had a mobile but limited signal so she only said a few words," he said. "Then this lady rang us and said she was alive. Thank God."

Ms Forder's sister Amanda-Sue Markham then took to Twitter, to say Billie had been found, following her desperate pleas for help over the past few days.

She tweeted: "My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety."

Mr Forder said the family still hadn't spoken to Billie.

"But there has been contact and we do know she is alive," he said.

"It's all up in the air and we still have to get her to safety.

"She still needs to be rescued... she is camping out with her orphans, which will need care.

"And she wouldn't want to leave them without care."

Mr Forder said even if rescue crews found Billie she might not want to leave.

"It will be hard," he said. "I was speaking to the government department and they said we have got to try and locate her, and what's the story with getting her back if she doesn't want to come back?

"She won't want to leave the kids. She is pretty attached to them. "

It was the second piece of good news for Western Australian families desperately trying to get information from loved ones stuck in the region.

Shannen Wynne and Callumn Shelley

Earlier on Sunday Shannen Wynne and Callumn Shelley also made contact with their families, more than 24 hours after the quake, to confirm they were alive and well.

As many as 350 Australians remain unaccounted for however, as the search continues.

The 15 West Australians missing:

Brooke O'Keefe

Karen Lee Jury

Kamisha Skye Campbell

Torsten Michael d'Scarlett

Angus McDougal Caithness

Anna Barbara Speirs

Jalada Wilson

Luke Grieve

Scott Daniel Stuart

Gregory Kent

Donna Kent

Michael Barry

Tanya Kaptein

Michael Rummer

Shelly Voigt
</text>