<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/mumbai/nepal-earthquake-the-first-tremor-was-enough-to-make-us-run-out/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: The first tremor was enough to make us run out
</headline>

<text>
For a group of six tourists, a 15-day plan for trek and bike rides crumpled to a basic idea — to survive in the open.

What began as a fun trip to the Universal Religion Music festival in Nepal ended in a horrific memory for Prabhat Handoo (32) and five of his friends. The group was evacuated by the Indian embassy from Kathmandu’s earthquake-struck zone and airlifted to New Delhi on Sunday.

On Saturday afternoon, as he packed to leave for a 25-km drive out of Kathmandu to the fest, and while his two friends, Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal, were getting themselves tattooed at a tattoo convention, the first tremors cracked the hotel walls. “The first tremor lasted 30 seconds, it was enough to make us run out,” says Handoo, an IT consultant in Pune.

He was on a honeymoon with his wife, Aarti Jayraj. They were accompanied by Aarti’s sisters, Payal and Poorti. The four, along with a Swedish couple and two hotel helps, ran out to an open ground. By 1 pm, local Muslims were praying on the ground. “I saw them and we started praying too,” Handoo added.

Their 15-day plan for the fest, trek and bike-ride crumpled down to a basic need – to survive in the open.

Hotels in the region had asked all guests to spend the night in the open. The group of six had three tents, six sleeping bags, water and food to survive Saturday night in a Social Welfare Society’s park. They felt tremors every hour and kept trying to call their family for help.

It was pure luck, they say, when Mane’s family put them in touch with the Indian embassy’s emergency number. “The embassy asked us to reach the airport somehow,” he added.

It was Sunday night by the time Handoo and his wife were allotted rooms at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi for some rest. That is when it all came back. “The old air-conditioner vibrated and my wife woke up thinking it was another earthquake,” said Handoo.

Nepal nationals in city a worried lot

For Nepal nationals living in Mumbai, it has been a tough wait since Saturday after the earthquake cut off all mobile tower connectivity. On Sunday, when tremors shook Nepal again, Srujan Bisi (18) made yet another attempt to reach out to his family in Palpa district. “After the second earthquake on Sunday, their numbers (parents, brother and sister-in-law) are unreachable,” said a worried Bisi, who has shifted to Mumbai four months ago in search of a job and currently works as a helper in an Andheri (West) studio.

Another Nepal citizen, Raj Kumar, who has been living in Mumbai for the past five years, said he was glued to the TV since Saturday.

He last visited Palpa, his home district, in September last year. He said his father had called him on Saturday after 7 pm but the call got “disconnected very quickly”.

mumbai.newsline@expressindia.com

Video of the day

For all the latest Cities News, download Indian Express App
</text>