<url>
http://dotearth.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/27/why-is-the-rising-death-toll-in-the-nepal-earthquake-still-lower-than-predictions/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Why Is the Rising Death Toll in the Nepal Earthquake Still Lower Than Predictions?
</headline>

<text>
Amid the horror and devastation around Nepal’s Katmandu Valley after Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude earthquake, seismologists and earthquake-focused engineers are remarking on how low the death counts are — particularly in the capital — compared to many predictions for the densely populated, deeply impoverished and ill-prepared region.

And this assessment presumes that fatalities will climb much higher than the 3,800 counted so far. But to reach even the low end of past estimates, the death toll would have to rise enormously.

In 2012, for example, this was the warning for the Katmandu Valley from the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction:

Conservative estimates are that the next big earthquake could result in 100,000 dead, 200,000 injured and one to two million people displaced

Why the difference? For one thing, it appears that, at least for the capital, this earthquake was not nearly a worst case.

If the great 1934 Bihar-Nepal earthquake occurred with today’s population and structures, vastly higher losses would occur, as GeoHazards International and Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology found in a 1999 analysis.

Susan E. Hough, a United States Geological Survey seismologist, sent these thoughts on Sunday:

As tragic as the losses are, it seems clear the city was not flattened. I’ve been struck by damage photos — not only the damage they show, but the damage they don’t show to apparently intact buildings in the background. This seems to go hand-in-hand with the ShakeMap, which is poorly constrained but shows intensities 7-8 in the near-field, not 9-10. I’m thinking it will be an interesting part of the earthquake story, understanding the ground motions in the near field. There should be at least some strong motion data from Katmandu, and maybe elsewhere. It kills me there isn’t more: I tried to put together a proposal a few years ago to install more dense low-cost accelerometers in the valley, working with NSET [Nepal’s National Society for Earthquake Technology] and Tribuvan University. I was involved with a proposal that went in a year or so ago…. I do think preparedness efforts made a difference. Amod Dixit and his team at NSET have worked tirelessly on outreach, education, and training. The population was not ignorant. Fatalism arises when problems are so far outside people’s control that they can’t do anything about it — or rather, they think they can’t do anything about it. And yes that paragraph is contradictory. The thing is, the overall problem was far outside anyone’s control but it is still possible to make some difference. Port-au-Prince is mostly the same story: big problems, big earthquakes, few resources. By my calculation, ground motions in Port-au-Prince were not intensity 9-10, but maybe 6-8. The story again was vulnerability.

I also asked her if there’s any concern about this being misperceived as the worst that could happen.

Could something bigger happen in Nepal? Sure. There’s the megathrust segment immediately west of this earthquake, which we believe last broke in 1505. It’s the usual story, though: we don’t know when. The odds of subsequent big earthquakes always go up after a major earthquake. Ironically, the most dangerous time, statistically, is always just after a major earthquake has happened. But still it’s a low probability. We quote a 1-in-20 chance that something bigger will happen within 3 days, but the odds drop quickly with each passing hour. By this time [Sunday], the odds are more like 1-in-100. And the odds of an earthquake much larger than 7.8 are much lower still. It is possible, maybe even inevitable, that both Port-au-Prince and Nepal will be hit with stronger ground motions than what they’ve seen in recent years.

So the city of Katmandu, while still reeling, has clearly been spared what could have been a far higher death count given rapid urbanization in recent years (driven in part as people fled political turmoil in the hinterlands), poor quality of construction, lack of emergency services and other glaring issues.

The focus at the moment should be supporting rescue and relief efforts. But it’s also vital for Nepal and international aid agencies and organizations to redouble efforts to rebuild with the worse in mind.

The geological forces creating the earthquake hazard in Nepal and throughout the region are not abating, as Kenneth Chang wrote.

Rural Devastation

Of course the other factor behind the low death counts so far is that estimates of deaths have mainly come from the capital and larger towns in the affected region, while small communities have been largely cut off.

Several earthquake analysts focused on the Himalayas said they would be surprised if the death toll ended up lower than 10,000 once rural towns and villages, hammered by landslides and building collapses, finish assessing losses. It could easily end up far higher.

Scan Facebook or Twitter using these hashtags for affected villages to get the idea: #Sindhupalchowk #Gorkha #Nuwakot #Rasuwa #Dhading.

Photo

There has been a steady flood of appeals for help on social media, speaking of enormous, as-yet-uncounted losses. Here’s one, from the Facebook page of The Darjeeling Chronicle:

Photo

Here’s a final thought from Thomas Parsons, also of the Geological Survey:

Unfortunately the tolls of this earthquake will likely rise with time as news from the more remote areas emerges. The intensity maps I’ve seen for Nepal are comparable to the M=7.6 2005 Kashmir earthquake (similar Himalayan foothills setting) where 80,000+ people perished. I don’t know anything about the population density in the strongest shaking zone in Nepal; hopefully it is lower than in the Pakistan case and construction standards are better (that’s just a hope, I don’t know). However, it appears that, other than some localized Katmandu basin effects, the city may have been spared from the most intense shaking. Had the earthquake been centered more to the east, this could have been substantially worse. In addition to possibly delayed reporting, we also have to worry about large aftershocks nearer to Katmandu (like the Darfield-Christchurch New Zealand example). Sometimes these can be delayed long enough to make improvements. For example, there were 5 years separating the 2008 M=7.9 Wenchuan China and 2013 M=6.6 Lushan earthquakes.

To get a sense (a chilling sense) of how popluation patterns have amplified exposure to earthquake hazards in the region, have a look at this map from GeoHazards International (a high-resolution version is here, part of a broader analysis), which shows the quake zone with population densities superimposed:

Photo

If you missed it, here’s my initial post, shortly after the quake struck, noting that the entire Himalayan region faces an extraordinary danger from the conjunction of relentless tectonic activity, rapid population growth and vulnerable construction.

Style note | The Times’s style guide still has Katmandu spelled without the h, as in the more common Kathmandu.
</text>