<url>
http://www.kctv5.com/story/28899108/kc-families-worried-about-loved-ones-in-nepal-after-devastating-quake
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Kansas City families worry about loved ones in Nepal - KCTV5
</headline>

<text>
Volunteers carry the body of a victim on a stretcher, recovered from the debris of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday. (AP Photo/ Niranjan Shrestha)

A magnitude 7.8 earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley on Saturday, the worst quake in the Himalayan nation in over 80 years.

The death toll after the powerful earthquake is rising as police, emergency crews and survivors dig through the rubble, hoping to find people trapped but still alive.

The quake violently shook five countries, including India, Tibet, Pakistan and Bangladesh, but Nepal suffered the most damage. More than 2,200 people so far have been confirmed dead. There have been 10 to 15 aftershocks hitting the country hours later. Climbers and villagers on Mount Everest are also feared dead due to resulting landslides.

Even though it's halfway around the world, the earthquake has hit close to home for a lot of people in the Kansas City area.

Families in the metro with loved ones in Nepal are panicked as they try and make sure everyone they know is safe. They have been gathering at the Bhutanese Nepali Church of Kansas to unite in prayer.

The church will be holding a vigil at 1 p.m. Sunday to mourn the loss of the more the thousands of victims in the earthquake.

One Nepalese man living in metro said his mother, sister and brother all still live in their home country. And while they are safe now, he is worried the danger is far from over.

Amar Bajracharya watches a Nepal news channel in terror. He sees the streets in a country he called home for more than 30 years, reduced to rubble. He knows life there will never be the same.

"We are just all trying to hold each other's hand and get strong," he said.

Bajracharya is safe with his wife and children in Overland Park. However, the rest of his family still in Nepal.

Most of his family members are all accounted for, but some relatives are not. He said all he can do is listen on the phone as his panic-stricken family tells him of collapsed homes on their street and turmoil.

"They're on their own right now," he said.

Bajracharya is the head of the Kansas City Nepalese Society. They are collecting donations for disaster relief. Click here to donate.

Outside Bhutanese Nepali Church of Kansas, people unite in prayer. Merika Dayli is trying to make sense of all the destruction in Nepal.

"We are really praying for them. And I know God has a better plan," Dayli said.

Those feeling helpless for their loved ones so far are doing all they can despite distance.

"It is devastating. Just an empty feeling. I don't have any words to describe," Dayli said.

A metro group called Hope for Nepal helps sponsor an orphanage of about 20 children who live just 25 miles away from the epicenter. The orphanage is damaged, but the group has been told that all the children are safe.

Group member Erin Dodson said even though they don't know much right now, which makes things difficult, she's overwhelmed with relief to know they aren't hurt.

"It's horrible to imagine those kids that you love being in a situation like that, that could be in the rubble, being pulled out of a building, but I know that's not them, I know they're not in that situation," she said.

Drew and Lauren Timberlake are from Kansas City, KS. In February they announced that their family, which includes the couple and their three kids – ages 3 to 11 - would be going to Nepal for a couple of months.

In a blog post the family said they wanted to deepen their relationship with a Nepali family and their nonprofit organization and expand their children's world view.

Drew Timberlake began posting about the earthquake on his Facebook page. In one post he wrote,“7.9 earthquake in Nepal. We are all okay. Still many aftershocks. House next door fell down. We got children in basement out... miraculously without injury. Please pray.”

He said the epicenter was 50 miles away, but the earthquake was big enough to knock them off their feet.

Heart to Heart International said it is sending a team to the area and will also be shipping supplies.

To help the Hope for Nepal orphanage and others suffering in Nepal, click here. To donate, in the box called “CAM code” enter the code 702HFTN and in the “description” write general. After entering your amount and if you want to make a one-time or recurring donation, click “add to basket.”

Copyright 2015 KCTV (Meredith Corp.) All rights reserved
</text>