<url>
http://www.vishwagujarat.com/international/foreign-minister-margallo-expressed-india-nepal-and-chinas-condolences-spain/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Foreign Minister Margallo expressed India, Nepal and China’s condolences Spain
</headline>

<text>
The Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, today moved to India , Nepal and China condolences for those killed in the earthquake that struck the country on Saturday Himalaya.

Garcia-Margallo, an official visit to India and accompanied by a business delegation, participated today in the opening ceremony of a forum organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry and entitled “Business Summit Spain-India”.

Nothing else initiate his words, the head of the Spanish diplomacy moved condolences to Spain to India, Nepal and China for the loss of lives in the earthquake of 7.8 magnitude and did so on behalf of the King, the Government and the Spanish people.

The death toll from the earthquake and exceeded 3,200, while the rain that fell overnight and lack of communication hamper the work in this country.

The death toll in India rose to 62 people, while the number of injured rose to 269, while in China there is evidence already 20 dead and 58 wounded.

The Spanish foreign minister arrived yesterday in India on an official visit to strengthen political and economic relations with China.

Although García-Margallo continue today with their agenda in New Delhi, including a meeting with the Indian president, Narendra Modi, and several ministers, it is permanently tuned to the data arriving on the earthquake and the Spaniards who are not located in the Himalayan country.

Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still looking for a total of 117 Spaniards who were in Nepal when the earthquake, which has caused over 3,200 deaths occurred.

The 117 people who Affairs has not yet located in Nepal include tourists, residents and occasional residents, although most are tourists, according to the sources.

A total of 449 Spaniards were in Nepal at the time of the devastating earthquake that struck the country, of which 332 are already located.

It is planned that the first flight of the Airbus 310 of the Spanish Air Force, in which the minister arrived yesterday in New Delhi, split airport the Indian capital this afternoon to evacuate the Spaniards who are already in Kathmandu.

The plane made a second trip today and is expected to make a third morning, before returning to Spain.
</text>