<url>
http://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/don-t-pay-heed-to-rumours-on-quake-appeals-govt/72978.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Don’t pay heed to rumours on quake, appeals govt
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi, April 27

As the death toll in Nepal’s devastating earthquake mounted, the government today urged people not to pay heed to rumours being spread on social media as members in the Rajya Sabha asked government to prepare disaster management plan.

The House mourned the deaths and loss of property caused by the temblor, as most of the Zero Hour was taken up to allow members to speak on the tragedy in the Himalayan nation.

“Many comments come on social media that earthquake is going to happen at this hour. We should adopt restraint and not spread rumours on social media. I also appeal to people not to pay attention to such rumours being spread on social media,” Telecom and I-T Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.

If the government has any information on occurrence of any natural calamity, it will take adequate steps, he said.

Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said there was no need for panic on this issue in any way. “If some incident is apprehended, the government will discharge its responsibility.”

Deputy Chairman P J Kurien also expressed agreement with the ministers view, asking people not to pay attention to such comments being spread on the social media.

When the House met for the day, Chairman Hamid Ansari made a reference of more than 2,600 people being killed and hundreds more injured in a 7.9 magnitude earthquake that rocked Nepal on April 25.

The quake also caused extensive damage to houses and infrastructure and triggered avalance in the Himalayas, he said adding it also led to death of 60 persons and injuries to 250 in Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.

Expressing deep condolences to the people of Nepal, Ansari said India stands firmly behind friendly people of Nepal in their hour of grief.

Following this, Kurien said four notices for suspension of business under rule 267 to discuss the Nepal tragedy has been received and allowed members to make brief submissions.

Members praised Indian government’s role in relief and rescue operations in quake-hit Nepal but wanted it to beef up prepardness to deal with any such calamity.

Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) said while the government has been quick in helping Nepal, the Uttar Pradesh government has deployed buses in border areas to ferry stranded people and transport food, medicines and relief supplies.

“While the government is sensitive to the tragedy, Indian Embassy in Kathmandu has not shown equal sensitivity,” he said, adding that the embassy was not forthcoming in offering help to nephews of his fellow MP Naresh Agarwal who are stranded in Nepal.

Derek O’Brien (TMC) said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) was dissolved and only three members have been appointed so far to the 11-12 member Board. He asked the government not to keep the seats vacant.

Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said the government needs to be vigilant as many parts of the country were on the seismic zone.

National Disaster Management Authority should be strengthened and every state and district level authorities should be constituted, the Congress leader said.

Mayawati (BSP) said while the government was helping out the quake hit, it should not ignore the farmers impacted by unseasonal rains and hailstorm that has destroyed standing crops and led many of them to commit suicide.

Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M) said the government should permit MPLAD fund to be used in Nepal for quake relief.

Kurien said it was a good suggestion and can be considered.

A Navaneethakrishnan (AIAMDK) said the Tamil Nadu government has started a help centre at Tamil Nadu House in the national capital to help persons from the state stranded in Nepal.

K C Tyagi (JD-U) said Bihar has been worst hit by the earthquake in India and wanted the government to declare it a national calamity and help in relief and rehabilitation there.

Complimenting the government for reaching out to the quake hit Nepal, Kanimozhi (DMK) called for more preparedness to deal with natural calamities.

She said the helpline numbers provided after the earthquake were 10 digits which are difficult to remember.

Four digit helpline number, like the one provided by the West Bengal government, are easy to remember, she said.

Kurien remarked that it was a good and practical suggestion.

Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena) said the government should give permission to MPs to use their MPLAD funds to build schools, hospital and roads in Nepal. The demand also found support in Balwinder Singh Bhunder (SAD).

PM appreciates cooperation of states

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi today appreciated the cooperation of states and the role of the NDRF, media and other agencies in the wake of the devastating quake in Nepal that also hit India.

“To all those saying #ThankYouPM- appreciate the sentiment...real thanks should be to our great culture, which teaches us ‘Seva Parmo Dharma’,” he tweeted.

“If we want to thank anyone, it should be the 125 crore people of India who have made Nepal’s pain their own & extended all help,” Modi said.

The Prime Minister also saluted the resilience of “our sisters & brothers in Nepal & parts of India, for their courage in the face of disaster”.

Thanking the state governments for their cooperation, he said it is a major asset in such times.

The Prime Minister also appreciated the role of the armed forces, NDRF teams and the media.

“We must thank our armed forces, NDRF teams, doctors & all those volunteers who are overcoming every obstacle to restore normalcy in Nepal.

“Mention must be made of the media. They are bravely covering the disaster from the ground. Thanks!” he said. — PTI
</text>