<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/asia/nepal/11565385/Nepal-earthquake-tour-operators-cancel-trips-as-Britons-warned-not-to-travel.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: tour operators cancel trips as Britons warned not to travel
</headline>

<text>
Tour operators are cancelling trips to Nepal and the Foreign Office is advising against all but essential travel to the country following a major earthquake that has killed at least 3,800 people.

Travellers are being offering refunds on upcoming trips to Nepal, which is a hugely popular destination for trekkers and where the climbing season had just begun.

No British tourists have been reportedly killed or injured in the 7.8 magnitude quake that hit on Saturday, but hundreds of Britons were in Nepal and dozens remain unaccounted for. The epicentre of the quake was 81km west of Kathmandu, the capital.

The Foreign Office has advised Britons who are in the country to remain where they are until it is safe to leave and to follow advice from local authorities. “If you can leave Nepal safely then we advise that you should do so,” advice on its website states.

It also put out a helpline phone number for tourists in the country to use so that they can log their whereabouts and get advice, see the Foreign Office website for details .

Intrepid, an adventure tour operator, said that all of its 168 customers who were in Nepal over the weekend are safe and accounted for. It is currently trying to arrange travel for them to get them out of the affected areas as soon as they can. Flights out of the country are said to be full until May 2.

Intrepid is cancelling all of its trips to Nepal until May 11 and reviewing its other trips. Customers who were due to travel before then are being offered the chance to postpone their trips or full refunds.

“Travellers who are due to travel to Nepal imminently should contact their holiday company to make alternative arrangements,” said a spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents. “Customers booked on package trips with ABTA tour operators will be given three options; to defer their date of travel, transfer to another destination if available, or have a full refund.

•Nepal earthquake live coverage

“Customers who have booked independent arrangements who are unable to travel, should contact their insurance company to see if any resulting cancellation charges are covered, this may or may not be the case depending on the relevant insurance policy.”

Climbers on the Lhotse face

G Adventures, another British tour operator, has cancelled three of its tours up until May 4. “All travellers on these trips have been asked to make contact with friends and family to reassure their wellbeing,” a spokesman said. Travellers can rebook on an alternative trip or arrange a full refund on their tour.

G Adventures has also begun a fundraiser to raise nearly £50,000 in aid for quake victims, as have other operators, including Intrepid, through its not-for-profit The Intrepid Foundation.

“The situation in Nepal is heartbreaking,” said Michael Edwards, UK managing director of Intrepid Travel. “This is a part of the world that is close to the hearts of many of us, and we know that like us – travellers will want to help. We hope to raise a lot of money for local families in Kathmandu, and so we are encouraging people to give generously”.

A climber on Mount Everest captured the moment a huge avalanche hit the mountain's base camp. He and a friend ran to safety but at least 17 climbers are known to have died. Watch his video here.

The moment an avalanche hit base camp

Around 40,000 British nationals visited Nepal in 2013. The next few weeks would have seen the first ascents of Everest since the accident in its foothills last October, when an avalanche and snowstorm trapped hundreds of trekkers in the mountains and lead to the deaths of 32 people.

•Who are the earthquake's British and foreign victims?
</text>