<url>
http://www.kashmirdispatch.com/headlines/270430089-kashmiris-in-quake-hit-nepal-says-indian-authorities-left-them-unattended.htm
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Kashmiris in Nepal say Indian authorities left them unattended
</headline>

<text>
Kashmiris in Nepal say Indian authorities left them unattended

Several Kashmir businessmen in Kathmandu on Monday alleged that they were left in the lurch by Indian authorities in quake-hit Nepal and it was due to their own efforts that some among them managed to reach the airport where they are waiting to being airlifted.

Speaking over phone from Kathmandu International Airport, one of the stranded businessmen from Kashmir, who preferred to give his first name, said: “We are in distress. No one is helping us and the situation is worse. There is no food and water. No one is receiving our calls on helpline numbers of Indian Embassy. It was only due to our own efforts, we have been able to reach the Kathmandu Airport.”

The anxious businessman, Waseem, from Kashmir said he and his family were residing at Naya Bazar which is some 8 kilometers from Kathmandu Airport. “The taxi which we hired charged us 5000 rupees from Naya Bazar,” he said, adding: “I managed to push my family and several other people inside the airport but now I am left outside with some other people.”

Another businessman, on the condition of the anonymity, said: “Don’t tell us about these helplines (sic) established by Indian Embassy. Forget about us, they aren’t even able to take care of themselves. It was all due to our own efforts and self help we are here at the airport.”

He said Kashmiris who are there in Nepal for business purpose have left their shops and other belongings and they just want to save their lives and flew to home. When asked how many Kashmiris are stranded, the businessman said: “We can’t say how many would be here,” adding, “those who were seriously injured have been flown to India.”

Waseem said seven of his friends are accompanying him and he has no information about other Kashmiris who are in other parts of Nepal. He further said: “I’ll tell you honestly that we are in distressful conditions. We don’t know whether Indian authorities are helping people from other states or not.”

While the businessmen were talking, there was noise of planes in the background and one could hear people talking in Kashmiri.

The Additional Resident Commissioner of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Syed Mureed Hussain said that they are not able to connect to people in Nepal because of communication breakdown. “The government is trying its best. But, what can we do? You witnessed communication breakdown in Kashmir during floods. Even our satellite phones are not working.”

He said he spoke to Chief Managing Director of Air Indian Mr. Raj Shekhar in Kathmandu for the evacuation of J&K residents as well as bodies of two people from State who died in the quake.

“Believe me, we are trying our best. You know some things are out of bounds. I can’t go there by foot,” he said, adding: “I don’t know how but two to three Kashmiris have managed to reach here.”
</text>