<url>
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/apr/27/nepal-earthquake-no-reports-of-britons-killed-or-injured-says-foreign-office
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: no reports of Britons killed or injured, says Foreign Office
</headline>

<text>
Philip Hammond also says 200 nationals have neeeded practical help as PM announces rescue teams’ departure for Kathmandu to support relief effort

The British Foreign Office has received no reports of British nationals being killed or injured in the Nepal earthquake, but said it has helped hundreds of people.



Teams of consular staff in the country have been scouring hospitals and popular tourist hotspots, looking for British nationals who may need assistance.

The foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, said that 200 Britons had been given practical help by embassy staff.

Nepal earthquake: thousands in need of shelter in country little able to cope Read more

“There are several hundred British nationals in Nepal at this time of year and we expect that almost certainly some will have been caught up in the earthquakes,” Hammond said. “But at this moment we have no reports of any British nationals killed or injured.”

He added that damage to communications infrastructure was making it difficult to contact some people who may be in remote locations, meaning it could be some time before all the Britons in the region could be identified and accounted for.

He continued: “The Foreign Office is urgently deploying additional consular response teams from London and Delhi to reinforce our embassy staff and looking at what else we can do.”

The prime minister, David Cameron, announced on Twitter that UK medics and search and rescue teams would be flying out to Nepal tonight.

David Cameron (@David_Cameron) RAF aircraft will fly reinforcements and more supplies tomorrow. #Nepal

Earlier, the Department for International Development announced that it would be providing £5m of humanitarian aid for Nepal.

A total of £3m has already been released under the Rapid Response Facility to help address immediate, on-the-ground needs and £2m has been released to the British Red Cross. Christian Aid has made an initial £50,000 available to help victims.

Labour leader Ed Miliband, speaking at a campaign event in north London, pledged that Britain would do everything it could to help Nepal in its “hour of need”. The international development secretary, Justine Greening, said: “As the death toll rises and the scale of this devastating earthquake becomes evident, the UK is continuing to do everything it can to help all those affected by this tragedy.”

A team of more than 60 search and rescue responders and medical experts has been deployed as part of a cross-government capacity surge to support the relief effort in Nepal, Greening said.

Oxfam is also lending its support with teams flying in from the UK with supplies to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food supplies.

A DFID-chartered flight was due to leave London for Kathmandu on Sunday evening, carrying seven UK International Search and Rescue crews, four search and rescue dogs, a medical support team and a hazardous materials specialist.

They will take with them more than 11 tonnes of kit, including torches, axes, rope, search cameras, stretchers and tents.

Nepal quake: Everest base camp 'looked like it had been flattened by bomb' Read more

Also on board will be trauma medics travelling as part of a DFID-deployed UK Med team, a five-strong Foreign Office Rapid Deployment Team, who will provide further consular assistance for British nationals affected by the disaster, and experts from leading aid agencies including the British Red Cross, Medecins Sans Frontieres and Map Action.

Anyone who is caught up in the incident or worried about a family member should call the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on +44 (0) 207 008 0000.
</text>