<url>
http://www.news.com.au/national/northern-territory/darwin-mother-and-son-caught-in-nepalese-earthquake-have-returned-home-to-darwin/story-fnn3gfdo-1227334812249
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Darwin mother and son caught in Nepalese earthquake have returned home to Darwin
</headline>

<text>
A DARWIN mother and her young son who were “ready to die” in the Nepal earthquake have reunited with family in an emotional return home on Sunday.

Suyana Shrestha, 34, and son Siraj, 3, arrived in Kathmandu to visit her sick father just two days before the magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck and killed more than 7000 people on Saturday April 25.

Ms Shrestha said she was serving food at her in-laws’ Kathmandu home when the unit block started shaking violently.

“The building was around three storeys and we were in the first floor and it was just shaking and swinging around,” Ms Shrestha said.

“We ran around to take the three little kids (two of her in-laws’ young children and Siraj) and the wall from the other side was falling over and we could see it collapse through to the apartment next door.

“We were crying and screaming but we didn’t want to run around because there were kids so we just stayed there for a while, it was going for about 2.5 minutes, all of the walls cracked.

“When we got outside we could see a six storey building shaking.

“It was so traumatising.”

Ms Shrestha, Sinaj and her family soon moved to a “demolished school” where they stayed in the open air for the next three days.

“We couldn’t take anything,” she said.

“When the earthquake was stopped some people would go around the houses and get some biscuits and fruits and things like that, waters.”

Ms Shrestha said the “constant aftershocks” kept everyone outdoors, sleeping among rubble, with no shelter and few supplies.

“On the second day it was raining and that makes things worse because the soil is wet and people have to sleep on it,” she said.

“We didn’t have the proper tent, just mats and part of a tent over our heads only, people were getting wet when trying to sleep.

“I was a bit worried about my son’s health but I had to stop worrying about it and thought ‘OK if we are going to die, we are ready to die’ because you can’t stop the earthquake so we were ready for anything.

“In the street there’s people lying around and there’s dead bodies getting the smell all around the places.

“I think that scared most people because there might be some diseases and viruses going around.”

Ms Shrestha said her son coped well, too young to understand the concept of an earthquake, instead relating the camping experience to family picnics in Berry Springs National Park.

“Whenever we called his father (from my mobile phone) he said ‘oh we are having a picnic’,” Ms Shrestha said.

“Because he can have chips and lollies and junk foods (as he once did in Berry Springs with family and friends).”

The Federal Government chartered flights for Australian citizens back to home soil and Ms Shrestha and Siraj were among those assisted last Thursday.

Sudeep Shrestha, 37, reunited with his wife and little boy in Bangkok, where they had a two-day stopover en route to Darwin, last week.

“I was very happy to see them,” Mr Shrestha said.

“I was so worried for them every day because I know how an earthquake can destroy everything.

“In Bangkok my son just said ‘let’s go home, let’s go home’.

The family touched down in Darwin yesterday morning.

Ms Shrestha’s father survived the earthquake but died from unrelated causes on Saturday.
</text>