<url>
http://www.lansingstatejournal.com/story/news/local/michigan/2015/04/27/nepal-quake-michigan-missing/26449727/
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Several with Michigan ties listed as missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Family members look at a damaged buildings at Vhaktapur in Nepal, 27 April 2015. The death toll from this weekend's earthquake in Nepal is now at 4,138, reports the country's Interior Ministry. (Photo: ABIR ABDULLAH/EPA)

Several people born or residing in Michigan are on a list of those reported missing after an earthquake Saturday in Nepal killed at least 3,700 people, according to a website to connect people separated by the disaster.

More than 1,500 people have been registered either missing or alive on the website managed by the International Committee of the Red Cross. Two people with connections to Michigan have been reported alive.

Owen Cousino, 19, who was born in Ann Arbor is reported on the list as missing, but a church's Facebook post on Sunday indicates he survived.

"Great news! Owen is ok! He contacted his family last night. Praise God!" according to the post by Christ the King Life Teen, part of Christ the King Catholic Church based in Ann Arbor.

Christine Bedenis, 27, born in Michigan, also survived the quake in Nepal. She was listed among the missing this morning, but her mother said she's had contact from her.

Rescuers continue to search for people buried amid the rubble in the Nepalese capitol of Katmandu or in remote mountain villages. Landslides have blocked many mountain trails, hampering rescue efforts, according to USA Today.

(Photo: AFP-Getty Images)

The magnitude-7.8 earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday, toppling buildings in the impoverished nation's capital of Katmandu and triggering the avalanche.

Less than 100 miles away on Mount Everest, the world's highest peak, 18 climbers were killed in an avalanche, including Google executive Daniel Fredinburg. He was part of a team from the firm attempting to create a Google street map of the trek to Everest Base Camp, and Marisa Eve Girawong, an emergency room physician's assistant serving as a base camp doctor for the Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering expedition company, USA Today reported.

Officials said more than 100 aftershocks have rocked Katmandu since Saturday, including one that was magnitude 6.7, impeding the rescue work. Thousands of people have been driven to sleep out in the open having either lost their homes or fearing an already damaged structure might collapse on top of them. Hundreds are trying to flee the terror of the city, jamming the the roads out of town, USA Today reports.

(Photo: Tribune News Service, Detroit Free Press)

Dr. Richard Keidan founded and runs the Detroit2Nepal Foundation, helping improve public health, health care and educational opportunities for children in remote Nepalese villages as well as metro Detroit. He said the projects they've been working on for years in the impoverished Nepalese communities have all been damaged or destroyed in the natural disaster.

"The destruction is just devastating," he said, adding that most of the foreign aid is "not going to trickle out to these communities" that take several days to reach on foot.

Keidan said most of the donations to the foundation will be going toward these remote communities that might otherwise miss out on help.

According to the Red Cross list Monday, the following are among the missing:

> Phillip Eskander, 26, born in Chicago and residing in Portage

> Eric Walter Schuyler, 34, born in Michigan

> Dr. David Walter Stryker, 65, born in Michigan and living in Albuquerque, N.M.

> David Huizenga, 49, born in Grand Rapids

Those listed as alive include:

> Eric Camran Chaudhary, 28, born in Midland

How to help:

A number of organizations, including some in Michigan, are providing aid to those affected by the earthquake.

> A planned Over the Edge fundraising event in downtown Detroit has been changed to have half of all funds raised from Sunday on to be dedicated to earthquake relief efforts in Nepal; the other half goes to Detroit education initiatives. The event by Detroit2Nepal Foundation with Bedrock Real Estate Services and Quicken Loans offers a chance for people who raise more than $1,000 to rappel 25 stories down a downtown building.

The organization, which works to provide sanitation, education and health programs in Nepal, is accepting donations at www.detroit2nepal.org to help people in remote villages affected by the quake.

> CARE, a humanitarian organization providing emergency aid and fighting global poverty, is raising funds for food, water and shelter through its website.

> The American Red Cross is accepting donations for the Nepal earthquake relief effort here.

Contact Robert Allen at rallen@freepress.com or @rallenMI

Read or Share this story: http://on.freep.com/1Gy7hvB
</text>