<url>
http://english.cri.cn/12394/2015/04/28/4001s876447.htm
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Rescue Work Continues after Nepal's Major Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Members of China International Search and Rescue Team (CISAR) work at the rescue site in Nepal's capital Katmandu on April 28, 2015. CISAR members successfully found the second earthquake survivor after 34-hour rescue work in Katmandu on Monday. [Photo: Xinhua/Bai Yang] 0411Clinton.mp3 The Nepalese government now says the death toll from Saturday's earthquake has exceeded 43-hundered. More than 9-thousand people are reportedly injured. CRI's Huang Shan reports on the current situation in Kathmandu. Damaged roads, broken communication lines and landslides, as well as a lack of earth-moving equipment in rural areas have made relief efforts difficult. Local authorities and international aid teams have intensified rescue operations. More than 1.4-million people in Nepal have been moved to safer places. CEO of the International Humanitarian City, Shaima Al Zarooni, mentions the challenges faced by rescue teams. "Our major challenge is actually reaching Kathmandu due to the fact that there are aftershocks and the airport was not open unless again yesterday and therefore there are some flight congestions over there. Arrival of humanitarian trained staff on the ground is another challenge for passenger flights are not operating so there are some logistical challenges but we hope that we are overcoming them by this first aircraft." In order to save more lives after the 72-hour golden window, China's Medical Aid Expert Li Zonghao suggests that it is better to combine engineering rescue and medical rescue during operations. "To rescue victims from rubble is a difficult job. After being buried under debris for hours, people may suffer from crush syndrome, water shortage, and a decline in body function. If we can put engineering and medical rescue into action at the same time, it can save time and save lives. After engineers evaluate the safety standard of rescue scenes, medical teams can immediately initiate treatment for victims." Besides rescue problems, the capital Kathmandu is also undergoing a scarcity of water and some places have even experiencing blackouts in the past 50 hours. In local hospitals, medicine is running short, which has put pressure on rescue operations. The Local government confirms that it has begun to distribute relief materials to the public in open spaces. But more relief materials including tents, dry food, mattresses, medicine, and other essentials are still needed. The international community has spared no efforts to help Nepal in the aftermath of the disaster. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hong Lei, says China will send aid personnel and materials to earth-hit regions. "China is set to dispatch about 170 people to Nepal for rescue and medical operations. The Chinese government will also deliver 186 tons of relief supplies to quake-stricken region, including tents and blankets." China has already sent three aid teams to Nepal, and the first batch of relief goods has already arrived in Kathmandu. For CRI, I'm Huang Shan.
</text>