<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/nelson-mail/68075867/Nelsonians-work-to-help-Nepal
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nelsonians work to help Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Nelsonians work to help Nepal

Supplied Compassion Nepal volunteers with students and teachers at its Kathmandu orphanage in October 2013.

As international aid and search and rescue efforts scramble to assist Nepal, Nelson agencies are also gearing up to lend direct support to remote villages.

Nelson charity First Steps Himalaya has launched an urgent appeal for help, through the funding site givealittle. Donations had almost reached $16,000 by Tuesday morning.

The money would go to rebuild and repair the charity's projects after the 7.8 earthquake and the aftershocks.

Stacey Knott First Steps Himalaya Nepalese director Durga Aran

The charity had previously gone into run-down government schools in villages to revamp them. It recently built its first teacher training centre with assistance from international volunteers and an Auckland construction company as well as local Nepalese.

First Steps Himalaya Nepalese director Durga Aran was in Nepal a week ago working in the project village helping to build the teacher training centre, in the rural Sindhupachok district. The centre was made from earth-bag building materials. It was reported to be the only building still standing in the district and it only had a crack in it. He was expecting it be used by the villagers to shelter in.

He was deeply concerned about the welfare of the children supported by the charity's 22 project villages.

He said houses were built of stone and mud and would not have withstood the earthquake and aftershocks, and was concerned aid was not reaching the villages.

He planned to go to Nepal next month to visit the project villages and help them.

Aran's village of Jitpur was seriously damaged in the initial earthquake, with houses reduced to rubble.

Nelson charity Purple Cake Day was also supporting First Steps Himalaya and urging its supporters to donate to the charity.

Nelson builder Matt Thomas works with Compassion Nepal – a New Zealand charity that sponsors an orphanage in Kathmandu and helps smaller villages.

Thomas has been involved with the charity for five years, and had a pre-planned trip to Nepal in May. He was going over to help build a school but expected he would now help rebuild homes.

He has been to Nepal three times in the past five years.

He said the orphanage which was home to 25 children had survived the quake, but the children and carers had been sleeping outside.

"Right around the outside of the building there is a brick wall the surrounds it and that has collapsed. A lot of the buildings straight across the road and up the street have fallen down."

The charity went out to the remote villages the children were from to build schools as well.

"In the four remote villages we are working closely with in the last five years, most houses have been destroyed. We are hoping to send over money this week for food, water, blankets and basic shelter."

He feared international aid agencies support will take months to filter out to the remote villages, so direct contact from Compassion Nepal would be needed.

He is hoping New Zealanders' links with Nepal will inspire them to support the Nepalese.

He said many Kiwis have a connection with Nepal, through Sir Edmund Hillary, had visited Nepal or knew someone who had.

Nelson Marlborough Institute of Technology (NMIT) chief executive Tony Gray said the organisation was working to support its Nepalese students in Nelson. He said there were about 27 currently in the region.

The student support services were working to contact the students and offer them support and counselling services. He said they were gradually hearing back from the students, but NMIT would be following up on all students to check on their wellbeing.

Gray was also concerned about the agents NMIT worked with in Nepal who he was yet to hear from. He said communication infrastructure would hinder any response.

In coming days NMIT would be looking at ways to further support the Nepalese students, he said.

Another Nelson-based charity which works to help children in the remote Karnali zone of Nepal has reported its children are safe.

In Time Trust child sponsorship coordinator Cynthia McConville said the charity looked after more than 550 children and had reports that all were safe.

"Perhaps it is a blessing that we are surrounded by the Himalayan Mountains on three sides," she said.

She feared a school the trust worked to help build would have been destroyed but was "over the moon" to hear it, and the children were safe.

"I'm wondering if we are the only place in Nepal that doesn't have a problem," she said.

To donate to Nepal earthquake efforts

https://givealittle.co.nz/cause/earthquakenepalrelief

http://www.compassionnepal.com/

https://www.redcross.org.nz/donate/nepal-earthquake-appeal

- Stuff
</text>