<url>
http://www.inlandnewstoday.com/story.php?s=37541
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
INT: Nepal quake toll surpasses 3,000
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU - At least 3,218 people are now known to have died in a massive earthquake which hit Nepal on Saturday, say officials.



Rameshwor Dangal, head of Nepal's disaster management agency, said another 6,500 people had been injured. Dozens of people are also reported to have been killed in neighbouring China and India.



Thousands have spent a second night outside after the 7.8-magnitude quake, which also triggered deadly avalanches on Mount Everest.



Vast tent cities have sprung up in Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, for those displaced or afraid to return to their homes as strong aftershocks continue.



Rescue missions and aid have started arriving to help cope with the aftermath of the worst earthquake to hit Nepal for more than 80 years.



Efforts to dig victims out from under the rubble of collapsed buildings in Kathmandu continued throughout Sunday night.



Meanwhile, officials have warned that the number of casualties could rise as rescue teams reach remote mountainous areas of western Nepal.



Initial reports suggest that many communities - especially those close to mountainsides - suffered significant quake damage.



Landslides have prevented rescue teams from reaching rural communities in the area where the quake was centred, chief Gorkha region district official Prakash Subedi said.

"Villages like this are routinely affected by landslides, and it's not uncommon for entire villages of 200, 300, up to 1,000 people to be completely buried by rock falls," World Vision spokesman Matt Darvas said. "It will likely be helicopter access only."



A man evacuated by helicopter to Pokhara said almost every home in his village of more than 1,000 houses had been destroyed, charity worker Matt Darvas of World Vision told the BBC.



In Dhading district, west of Kathmandu, people were camped in the open, the hospital was overflowing, the power was off and shops were closed, Reuters news agency reported.



Renewed panic

A powerful aftershock was felt on Sunday in Nepal, India and Bangladesh, and more avalanches were reported near Everest.



The 6.7-magnitude tremor, centred 40 miles east of Kathmandu, sent people running in panic for open ground in the city.



It brought down some houses that had been damaged in the initial quake.



At hospitals rattled by the aftershocks, staff moved sick and injured patients outside on Sunday afternoon.

Both private and government hospitals have run out of space and are treating patients outside, officials say.



Stranded on Everest

Foreign climbers and their Nepalese guides around Mt Everest were caught by the tremors and a huge avalanche that buried part of the base camp in snow.



More than 60 people were injured and many people are still missing. (Source: BBC)



World's deadliest recent earthquakes

Iran, 2003: More than 26,000 people killed in 6.6 earthquake near the city of Bam



Indonesia, 2004: Devastating 9.1 earthquake and ensuing tsunami off the Sumatran province of Aceh kills more than 230,000 people in a dozen countries



Pakistani-administered Kashmir, 2005: 7.6 earthquake near Muzafferabad kills about 100,000 people



China, 2008: Nearly 90,000 killed in 7.9 earthquake in eastern Sichuan province



Haiti, 2010: More than 220,000 people killed in 7.0 magnitude earthquake (Source: BBC)

Story Date: April 27, 2015
</text>