<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3058029/He-magical-Girlfriend-s-heartbreak-death-modern-day-Superman-adventured-ends-earth-Google-Maps.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
'He was magical': Girlfriend's heartbreak at death of 'modern-day Superman' who adventured to the ends of the earth for Google Maps
</headline>

<text>
The girlfriend of a Google engineer who died in the deadly avalanche on Mount Everest described him as a magical person whose purpose in life was to constantly challenge himself.

Ashley Arenson said boyfriend Dan Fredinburg, 33, had a way of making people around him feel special and urged them to accomplish everything they wanted.

The Arkansas-native is one of four Americans confirmed to have died when an earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday, causing a tsunami of snow and ice to engulf the base camp.

Ashley Arenson (left) said boyfriend Dan Fredinburg, 33, had a way of making people around him feel special and urged them to accomplish everything they wanted. He was one of the four American citizens to die at Mount Everest during the deadly avalanche on Saturday

Arenson revealed that the Google engineer and Arkansas-native wanted to return to Mount Everest following the devastation of the avalanche last year - when 16 people were killed

After hearing the news of his death. Arenson posted an image of Fridenburg wearing a white t-shirt on Instagram alongside the message: Modern day superman. This photo was taken at The Laundry, SF during construction in September.

'Pure joy overcame @danfredinburg as he showed me one of the ways he is going to change the world.'

Speaking to CNN, Arenson said: 'He's brought out the best version in me. He would constantly make you want to be the best person you can.

'All of his choices were to help him become happy.

'He had this way of making the people around him just feel special without even trying, and make people feel like they could accomplish anything they wanted,' she added.

She revealed that he wanted to return to Mount Everest following the devastation of the avalanche last year - when 16 people were killed.

The Arkansas School of Math graduate had planned to attempt to reach the summit, when his trip was cancelled.

He had been travelling to the Himalayas frequently as part of the Google Adventures team, who were mapping out extreme routes around the world.

'I don't think Dan would want people to do just one thing. He would want them to constantly challenge themselves,' Arenson said.

'What Dan would want is for every single person out there to live life to the fullest and live in the moment because that's what he did. That's how he lived his life.'

Arenson sat alongside one of Fredinburg's closest friends Michael North.

The couple often went on adventures together and would share their experiences on Instagram. Arenson said Fredinnburg brought out the best in her

On this social media post four months ago, Arenson said she couldn't wait to be reunited with her 'partner in crime'. The pair met again before he set off to Everest for the expedition

The pair were wearing yellow scarves, which are given during a Nepalese ceremony to ensure safe passage over the mountain.

He said: 'We would say Dan had this ability to create a reality-distortion field. That he had so much power, he could change reality ... He would make the world just such a happy, vibrant place to be.'

North also started a company with Fredinburg called Save the Ice, a group which travels the world to document climate change hotspots.

They released a statement following his death saying: 'Save the Ice mourns the loss of our co-founder Dan Fredinburg, who perished during this morning's avalanche while climbing Mt. Everest for our "Expedition Everest" campaign. We have lost a great friend, inspiring adventurer, and, above all, a warrior for the planet.'

His friends have since uploaded a Crowdrise page in Fredinburg's memory, with all the funds going to relief efforts and an orphanage he was involved in. More than $38,000 has been raised so far.

Fredinburg started at Google in 2007.

Beforehand he graduated from the Arkansas School of Math, Science and Art in Hot Springs in 1999, before moving on with his career.

He started at the technology company as product manager and then head of privacy at Google X, the company's secretive arm best known for 'moonshot' projects such as the self-driving car.

Fredinburg had been travelling to the Himalayas frequently as part of the Google Adventures team, who were mapping out extreme routes around the world

After hearing the news of his death. Arenson posted an image of Fredinburg wearing a white t-shirt on Instagram alongside a message which began: 'Modern day superman'
</text>