<url>
http://www.nj.com/essex/index.ssf/2015/04/nj_filmmakers_chronicling_mans_journey_when_earthq.html
</url>

<date>
20150427
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake survivors heading home to N.J., will finish film on injured climber
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU — Members of a documentary film crew from New Jersey are among the survivors of an earthquake and avalanche that has killed thousands of people on and around Mount Everest, but the subject of their film was injured in the disaster.

According to Meredith Gaito, a West Milford resident who graduated from Montclair State University's film program in December, the subject of her first documentary is one man's inspirational quest to climb Everest.

"Last year, I was procrastinating on some of my final papers, and I saw a link on Facebook about a man with cystic fibrosis who was trying to climb Mount Everest. I have cystic fibrosis too, so obviously I was intrigued."

The man was Nick Talbot - an English hiking and climbing enthusiast who was working to raise money and awareness for the disease. After Gaito reached out to Talbot on Facebook about possibly chronicling his journey for a film, the two worked together to secure funding for his trip and her project.

Gaito said she teamed up with two of her former MSU classmates - Sierra Johansen of Blairstown and Mike Pacyna of Linden - to make the movie. At the end of March, Johansen and Pacyna traveled to Nepal with Talbot to document his trip up the mountain.

"We started off telling the story of me trying to tell this story," Gaito said. After several weeks of filming, everything changed Saturday.

"Of course, when there was the earthquake in Nepal, we were tremendously impacted by it."

When the earthquake and avalanche hit, Gaito said the two filmmakers were walking toward base camp to meet Talbot, who was already there. Talbot, she said, suffered cracked ribs and hypothermia in the aftermath. Johansen and Pacyna were not injured, she said.

"Nick was in pretty bad shape, but he is O.K.," Gaito said.

According to a BBC report, Talbot was airlifted from Pumori Advanced Base Camp to a hospital in Kathmandu, where he is awaiting a plane back home to the U.K.

A request for comment to Talbot's fundraising group, CF vs. Everest, has not yet been returned. But, he has been tweeting about his condition.

internet to cut out now, contactable via Summit Hotel Kathmandu if needed. Looks like may be stuck here until 1 May before flight available — Nick Talbot (@CF_vs_Everest) April 27, 2015

Tough 48 hours after earthquake tsunami of snow, rock and ice hit base camp. Bruised, battered & lucky to be here, thx for all the kind msgs — Nick Talbot (@CF_vs_Everest) April 27, 2015

According to Gaito, not all of the members of Talbot's immediate group were so lucky. He was scaling the mountain as part of a 17-member trekking group "Jagged Globe," Gaito said. One of the members of the group, Google executive Dan Fredinburg, reportedly did not survive a severe head injury he sustained after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Jagged Globe did not immediately respond to an email request for comment, but did post a message on its website.

"It is with the greatest sorrow that we report the death of one of our Everest team members, Daniel Fredinburg. Two other team members have non-life threatening injuries, as a result of the avalanche that struck base camp during the earthquake and its aftershocks," the organization posted on its website.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to Dan's family and friends whilst we pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan nation."

According to a New York Times report, the earthquake and avalanche have been responsible for at least 3,800 deaths.

Gaito said she feels grateful that her colleagues are on their way home. She said she was unsure whether or not Talbot will attempt to climb again after his recovery, but that the documentary's story should go on.

"Right now, the plan is for everyone to get home and to recuperate," she said. "But, this will become a part of the story."

Jessica Mazzola may be reached at jmazzola@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter @JessMazzola. Find NJ.com on Facebook.
</text>