<url>
http://www.couriermail.com.au/entertainment/celebrity/inside-actor-hugh-sheridans-desperate-rescue-mission-to-find-his-brother-lost-after-nepal-quake/story-fnihm6nt-1227323509739?nk=d41498c76c7427de1e44c41cf30c52bb
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Hugh Sheridan launches desperate rescue mission for brother
</headline>

<text>
ZACHARY Sheridan, the brother of Australian actor Hugh Sheridan, has been found safe and well in Nepal.

Sheridan, who was reported missing by his family and his brother, Tweeting a message on Tuesday afternoon to say he was safe and “really sorry for everyone affected”.

“I have just arrived in Lobuche,” he wrote.

“I was in Gokyo at the time of the earthquake, thankfully arriving ahead of schedule and on flat ground.”

He said communication problems had made it impossible to get in touch earlier about his safety.

His brother, former Packed To The Rafters star Hugh Sheridan, had hired a helicopter, assembled a crew and was travelling to help in the search for his younger brother.

He was on his way to the Himalayan country from Los Angeles, determined to find Zachary.

media_camera Desperate search ... actor Hugh Sheridan will launch his own rescue mission to find his missing brother Zachary in Nepal. Picture: Facebook

The missing 20-year-old was trekking to Mount Everest base camp when the massive 7.8 magnitude quake struck at the weekend. He hasn’t been heard from since.

The death toll from the disaster has now passed 3,100. While the epicentre was in the Kathmandu region, the quake triggered a deadly avalanche on Everest.

media_camera Difficult operation ... rescuers use a makeshift stretcher to carry an injured person after an avalanche flattened parts of Everest base camp following the earthquake. Picture: AFP Photo

“Stay positive everyone,” Sheridan said via a message posted on Instagram. “I feel optimistic that he is alive and stuck.”

The actor plans to search the area around Everest base camp with a small crew, including a doctor. He has hired a helicopter and satellite telephone.

media_camera Final image ... Hugh Sheridan received this picture from his brother Zachary just before the earthquake struck. Picture: Instagram

Sheridan also offered to assist other Australians in the area to make contact with loved ones back home.

“We will have a satellite phone available for any Australian there who needs to reach home and tell their loved ones they’re OK. I know so many of us are still waiting to hear but communication is down.”

The message was contained in a caption of a photograph that the star uploaded, which was taken by his little brother just days before the quake struck.

“This was the last picture he sent me, he sure captured her beauty,” he said.

media_camera Growing fears ... hundreds of Australians are still unaccounted for following the earthquake in Nepal, which has killed more than 3,100 people. Picture: AFP Photo

Earlier on Monday, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said authorities had made contact with 830 Australians in the region and confirmed their safety.

However the Department of Foreign Affairs is till trying to reach hundreds of others who are missing.

“My heart goes out to every family who is still waiting to hear,” Sheridan said. “I’m looking forward to seeing my little brother and getting him out safely.”

Originally published as Hugh Sheridan’s missing brother found
</text>