<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/am/content/2015/s4224920.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Aftershocks continue in Nepal; concerns about clean water
</headline>

<text>
Samantha Hawley reported this story on Tuesday, April 28, 2015 08:06:00

MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: Nearly 4,000 people are now known to have died in the earthquake which struck Nepal on Saturday.



Nepal's army and police has stepped up rescue efforts and officials are pleading for international aid for everything from blankets and helicopters to doctors and drivers.



Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says 1150 Australians have now been now accounted for.



Samantha Hawley reports from Kathmandu.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: When you drive around the streets of Kathmandu, there's a randomness to how the quake hit. Some buildings sit as nothing but a pile of bricks and rubble, while homes still stand tall right next door.



MAN: It's sad because you know we have to go through such a difficult time, so we're feeling very sad.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: In this downtown neighbourhood there's one such building and homes of neighbours like Bajai Sattle (phonetic) were spared.



(Talking to Bajai Sattle) How many people died in this building?



BAJAI SATTLE: It's like one on the spot, you know it was right over, it fell right over the car and right on the spot one lady died.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: What does it mean for the Nepalese people, do you think, with such huge loss of life?



BAJAI SATTLE: Yeah it's like for Nepalese people I think, it's like because we knew this is a prime zone for the earthquake, right? But still it's like maybe I blame the government for policy, because the building code maybe would be the very safest thing that you know we can apply.



(Sound of helicopters)



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Drive further and from a distance smoke billows from the air. Out on the open along a river bank Hindu cremation ceremonies are taking place in their dozens.



(Sound of man talking)



"Everyone is sad", this man tells me as he watches the ritual. "So many people do not have a house to live, many do not have food to eat or clothes to wear. Everything's been destroyed."



More than 3,500 people are reported to have perished. But at the epicentre of the quake 80 kilometres from the capital it remains unclear how many people may have lost their lives.



This is Samantha Hawley in Kathmandu reporting for AM.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: And I spoke to Samantha Hawley on the line from Kathmandu a short time ago.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Now there's still so many people living outdoors and I think that will be of major concern for security as well, but also obviously for those people's health and the water situation will be of the utmost concern for the aid agencies, that these large communities, that many who are homeless, do have access to clean drinking water.



Near the river, for instance, there's cremations, Hindu cremations taking place very close to the water. There are many bodies being burnt every day. And so the water supply in the city, which was probably always quite unsafe to drink would now be at a very dire situation and so clean water will be the biggest concern.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: And the electricity I imagine, and the infrastructure generally, would still be very badly affected. Are people managing to get any help?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Well yes, I mean the electricity is off in a lot of places across Kathmandu. I mean I'm staying at a hotel where there's a generator, so there is some electricity in places. But of course when the tremors come that's normally cut off.



The phone lines are very on and off, if I can put it that way. Even actually to call overseas and to call within Kathmandu, obviously still hard to buy food and water. Although we did see yesterday, after we'd had a time of about 12 hours without a tremor we did see some shops start to open again. But again, I'm not sure that they might be shut today if people are a bit worried again about these aftershocks that just seem to keep coming.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: What about outside Kathmandu itself? Do you know is aid getting to the areas it needs to get to?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Well my understanding is that the big aid groups and their teams, is my understanding, are still flowing in now to the capital. Those teams will begin moving out of Kathmandu very soon.



But my understanding is that at the epicentre of this quake, really no-one has managed to get there to provide the help. Of course that's where the most extensive damage will be. And so the biggest fear, Michael, is that the death toll, which is already so incredibly high, will continue to rise above where it's sitting at the moment.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: And you've obviously been out and about in Kathmandu, and I understand you've been to the Australian embassy. What is the situation there?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: The embassy is taking Australians in. They've set up a sort of tent city. The embassy itself actually was very badly damaged. The building can't be entered at the moment. But they have provided a sort of tent city. They're providing food, shelter.



So when I arrived yesterday I arrived at the same time as another Australian man. He walked in and basically, yeah, said he was there and the woman said, oh well that's good, we can take you off this list now. And then I assume that they would contact his relatives in Australia. So they've got quite an efficient service running at the Australian embassy.



But again it's very hard for people to contact an embassy, so they really need to get there via foot, or by car. And I think we're finding that a lot of trekkers, because there's so many here in Kathmandu, would still be making their way towards that embassy.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: That's our correspondent Samantha Hawley in Kathmandu.
</text>