<url>
http://www.askmen.com/news/power_money/7-9-magnitude-earthquake-rocks-nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
7.8 Magnitude Earthquake Rocks Nepal
</headline>

<text>
7.8 Magnitude Earthquake Rocks Nepal

Trending News: You Have To See The Photos To Believe The Immense Damage From Today's 7.8 Magnitude Earthquake In Nepal

Why Is This Important?



Long Story Short



Long Story

Because the earthquake was the strongest since 1934 when 10,000 people died.A deadly earthquake measuring 7.8 in magnitude struck Nepal Saturday with an undetermined amount of people dead. Reports suggest at least 800 people have died in Nepal, but photos of the extent of the damage suggest casualties could be even more.[Update 3:50 a.m. E.S.T. Sadly the death toll for this tragedy has risen to 1,910 and 5,000 injured with strong aftershocks continuing to shake Nepal and India overnight. One aftershock on Sunday measured 6.7 magnitude and caused new avalanches at Mount Everest. Seventeen climbers there have been reported dead and 61 injured. International help is beginning to pour in to assist with the chaotic situation, especially in Kathmandu where hospitals are overcrowded. The U.S. will be sending a disaster response team and $1 million in aid to Nepal.]

[Update 10:15 a.m. E.S.T. BBC News is reporting that the death toll has risen to 876 and 1,700 injured. Yahoo News is also reporting that at least 10 climbers at Mount Everest died from an avalanche caused by the earthquake.]

[Update 8:15 a.m. E.S.T: The death toll has risen to nearly 688 in Nepal, 20 in India, six in Tibet and two in Bangladesh, according to Nepalese police as reported by Fox News and the magnitude has been downgraded from 7.9 to 7.8 by the U.S. Geological Survey. This story has been updated to include this new information.]

The speed in which we learn about major world disasters today is starkly different from what it was like before social media. Nowadays with more people accessing Twitter and Facebook around the globe, news and photos come at us at hyper-speed. But with that lightning-fast speed comes an ethical dilemma: do we need to see gruesome and devastating images from these disasters?

One one hand, we need to know the extent to the devastation, which could influence us to help in our own way, like by sending much-needed relief cash. On the other hand, the photos are shocking and posted regardless if they'd pass a newspaper editor’s desk as suitable for the public.

I come from the belief that as long as the photos of natural disasters are real, they are usually in the public's interest. The same doesn't go for all photos and videos, though. Take the ISIS beheadings – not everyone needs to see those.

Many users on Twitter are asking themselves this very question today as photos are being posted from the shocking 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. So here's your warning, some shocking photos of the disaster have been posted below.

But first, here's what happened: CNN reports that the quake hit 50 miles from Nepal's capital Kathmandu and had a dangerously shallow depth of 9.3 miles, which tore down buildings all over the region, including historic monuments like the 63 meters tall Bhimsen Tower. Tremors were felt as far as 200 miles away in New Delhi, India, and the quake is being called the largest since 10,000 people died from a similarly located earthquake in 1934. Reports of climbers being caught in avalanches on Mount Everest have been coming in, too.

But while many photos of the damage have been posted online, the big question on everyone’s minds will take some time to answer: how many people are dead? Reports are currently stating the death toll is nearly 2,000, but the number is likely to be much higher considering 2.5 million people live in the region near the earthquake’s epicentre and the quality of buildings are considered weak.

So without further ado here are some of the photos from the devastation that show the extent of the damage. I’ve left out some of the most gruesome, but the damage is still hard to miss.



People rescued under rubble in #Nepal after earthquake pic.twitter.com/tdviVjspj5 — Isrrael Villablanca (@loockito) April 25, 2015

Nepal earthquake - historic tower collapses killing several. Latest updates here http://t.co/ezoMbSOWkl pic.twitter.com/57TWp5nX58 — Barney Henderson (@barneyhenderson) April 25, 2015

PM Narendra Modi calls meeting after earthquake hits: 10 developments http://t.co/FxocF7YGiE pic.twitter.com/dDtQv5Ry4m — NDTV (@ndtv) April 25, 2015



Own The Conversation

How quickly will the world come to Nepal's aid?

Disrupt Your Feed: If the photos of the devastation is real they should be shown. Natural disasters happen and you can’t baby the public.

Drop This Fact: Nepal’s last earthquake occurred in 2011 when at least five people died.
</text>