<url>
http://www.thesudburystar.com/2015/04/28/local-men-reported-safe-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Local man reported safe in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Initial reports indicate Cody Walter and Sam Caldbick are safe in Nepal.

Walter and Caldbick were trekking in Langtang National Park when the earthquake hit last Saturday. They had not been heard from since the disaster, but early Tuesday morning, a member of Walter's family emailed The Star with good news.

"We received news late this evening from Caroline Engler from Calgary. She received a call from her husband and stepson, who are trekking in the same group as Cody and Sam. Cody relayed that they were okay and no injuries in their group," Steve Walter, Cody's father, wrote. "They are stranded on the route, awaiting a helicopter."

According to Walter's source, the group had taken refuge in the village of Thulo Syabru.

"We know that the locals in the village are helping as much as they can, and we hear that food and water is in good supply," he wrote to The Star. "There are still many missing/injured people in Langtang National Park who are in more dire need of rescue, so we don't expect the group at Thulo Syabru to be airlifted out quite as quickly. Again, they are currently stranded, but safe and uninjured."

Jennifer Ring, Cody's girlfriend, tweeted at 1:19 a.m. on Tuesday, "We got word (that) Cody Walter and Sam Caldbick are SAFE and waiting for their rescue chopper!! Thank you @carolineheldman for everything!!"

Ring later tweeted the following: "At this time I have no comment on the situation of my loved ones in Nepal and ask all news outlets to focus on the situation in Langtang Park and the hundreds of people there waiting to be rescued. Everyone is important, especially the people running out of food and water. That is the real story."

A 7.9-magnitude earthquake struck the country of 31 million on Saturday, killing more than 4,600 and injuring more than 9,000 people. Eight million people are said to be affected across Nepal, with one million children in urgent need of assistance. Approximately 1.4 million people require food aid. The government has declared a state of emergency and humanitarian aid agencies have indicated there is a high need for medical supplies, medicines, tents and potable water. Fuel reserves are running low and ATMs cannot be replenished. In India, 72 people have been reported dead, while China has reported 25 deaths.

CNN reported on Tuesday that as many as 200 people were reported missing after a landslide occurred at about 4 p.m. (local time) on Tuesday in Langtang National Park.

"Laxmi Dhakal, spokesman for Nepal's Home Ministry, said he was aware of reports about the landslide but wasn't immediately able to confirm details," CNN reported.

Donna Kanerva, Cody's mother, told The Star on Tuesday afternoon the family is declining to comment to media until they speak with the boys. She has heard they are okay, but so far, she said information has been second-hand.

The Canadian government has committed $5 million so far to rescue and relief efforts. Locally, Ayugma Acharya, a 17-year-old student at St. Benedict's Catholic Secondary School, has begun crowd-funding at www.gofundme.com/sxx7cg. He hopes to raise $30,000, which he plans to donate to the Nepalese Red Cross.

maryk.keown@sunmedia.ca

Twitter: @marykkeown

705 674 5271 ext. 505235
</text>