<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-04/28/c_134192335.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Spotlight: Nepal in dire need of emergency supplies - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
Relief supplies are seen in Gorkha County, the epicenter of Saturday's quake in Nepal, on April 28, 2015. (Xinhua/Deng Min)

KATHMANDU, April 28 (Xinhua) -- Almost three days after a massive earthquake rocked Nepal, tens of thousands of people who survived still have to stay in the open air in the capital city, without enough food or drinking water but only a piece of plastic sheeting as a makeshift shelter.

According to the latest figures by the country's home ministry, the magnitude-7.9 quake has so far caused the deaths of 4,264 people and injured more than 7,000. Over 400,000 buildings collapsed in the massive quake and the its aftershocks.

The lack of tents and other emergency supplies is a harrowing problem for almost all survivors, affecting even some high-ranking officials, Wu Chuntai, China's ambassador to Nepal, told Xinhua while recounting a personal appeal for help by Nepalese Prime Minister Shri Sushil Koirala.

Koirala told the Chinese ambassador that his consultant for foreign affairs Bhatharai had to spend the night in open air after the quake.

Nepal on Monday called on foreign countries, including neighboring China and India, to provide more support during a meeting with over two dozen Kathmandu-based ambassadors and diplomats.

Many countries offered Nepal emergency aid and humanitarian assistance soon after the quake. However, most of the supplies have not yet reached the country due to frequent closure of the airport in Kathmandu amid aftershocks.

The distribution of emergency supplies could be very difficult, given that roads from the Capital city to regions hit hard by the disaster are mostly blocked in landslides.

"We are not able to distribute enough drinking water, dry food, mattresses, and medicines to the earthquake victims in such a difficult situation," Chief Secretary of the Nepalese government Leela Mani Paudyal said at a press conference on Monday.

He also admitted that the government is unable to send rescue teams to the far-flung villages of the country given the bad weather and difficult topography, adding that it is doing its best to conduct rescue operations.

There are reports of foreigners being robbed of their money and personal belongings near the Kathmandu International Airport, and there is concern that social security would worsen if nothing is done to help those in dire needs of a proper shelter, food and drinking water.

Several countries have made fresh offers to help Nepal. A 58-member medical team from China arrived in Kathmandu Monday morning, a day after a search & rescue team dispatched by the Chinese government started digging debris for survivors there.

The medical team comprises experts from medical, pharmacy, osteology, nursing and psychology departments, among others.

They brought with them 13 tons of medical aids and they are expected to stay in Nepal for about 10 days to carry out the humanitarian mission.

A team of 55 Chinese soldiers also left for Nepal on Monday to conduct rescue operations, and another team of 45 soldiers are scheduled to leave for Nepal on Tuesday.

The soldiers, all experienced in earthquake rescue missions, are taking with them four sniffer dogs, five recovery vehicles and rescue equipment, including life detection equipment and entry tools.

The Chinese government earlier offered Nepal emergency supplies worth 20 million yuan (3.3 million U.S. dollars), including tents, blankets and generators.

The United States pledged an additional 9 million dollars for "response and recovery" efforts, on top of one million dollars released on Saturday to address immediate humanitarian needs in Nepal.

"We're sending a nearly 130-person disaster-assistance response team to conduct assessments, coordinate the humanitarian response and provide search-and-rescue capabilities along with 45 tons of cargo," U.S State Department spokesman Jeffrey Rathke said at a daily news briefing on Monday.
</text>