<url>
http://www.ahmedabadmirror.com/news/india/20000-Indians-rescued-from-Nepal/articleshow/47088183.cms
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
20,000 Indians rescued from Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Altogether 20,000 Indian nationals have been evacuated from Nepal and arrangements were being made to take them to their homes by trains from Raxaul, Bihar, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. The death toll in India from Saturday's quake went up to 75, with Bihar accounting for 58 deaths, Home Secretary LC Goyal said; 450 people were injured in the affected states, which also include Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, and Sikkim.Four days after the devastating earthquake, people stranded in remote villages and towns across Nepal were still waiting for aid and relief to arrive. As the official death toll crossed 5,000, Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala warned that the number of dead could reach 10,000 as information of damage from far-flung places has yet to come in. That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake. Releasing $15 million as emergency aid, the UN said 8 million people have been affected, and 1.4 million people are in need of food assistance in Nepal.News agency reports from near the quake epicentre detailed stories of survivors digging through rubble to look for dead bodies of loved ones, and of helicopters flying out the injured to Kathmandu. India has evacuated 170 foreigners from 15 countries from Nepal, foreign ministry spokesperson Vikas Swarup tweeted. They include 71 Spaniards, 33 Polish, 20 Czech, 10 US and eight German nationals.The Indian Navy is readying a 16- member medical team to fly to Nepal to assist the rescue operations. The Indian Army said on Tuesday that it will continue with relief and rescue operation in Nepal till the situation becomes normal. Indian Army Chief General Dalbir Singh, who belongs to the Gorkha Regiment, is also the honorary chief of the Nepalese Army.Major Ritesh Goel, part of the 30- member Indian Army expedition team to Mt Everest, provided first-aid and stabilised nearly 70 climbers after the quake triggered a massive avalanche. He also took care of eight people with serious head injuries for about 14 hours before they were rescued via helicopters. Goel, 28, who is from Bangalore, joined the army six years ago.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has deputed four Union ministers to assess the loss of life and property in quake-hit areas of the country, especially Bihar, and oversee the relief and rescue operations there. While Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan is already deputed at the Indo- Nepal border and in overseeing relief operations in quake-hit areas, the other ministers deputed are Ananth Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh and J P Nadda.Ateam of Archaeological Survey of India will soon be visiting Nepal's Pashupatinath temple, to assess the damage and to begin the much promised restoration work. It was a crack in the stairs leading to one of the ghats at Pashupatinath temple that led Nepal government to ask for India's help to restore this World Heritage Site. In March 2013, ASI first team went to recce the monument.
</text>