<url>
http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/emergencies/constraints-slow-aid-from-dubai-to-nepal-1.1505108
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
‘Constraints’ slow aid from Dubai to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Aid for Nepal earthquake victims is prepared for dispatch at the Humanitarian City on 30th April, 2015.

Aid for Nepal earthquake victims is prepared for dispatch at the Humanitarian City on 30th April, 2015. Image Credit: Clint Egbert/Gulf News

Aid for Nepal earthquake victims prepared for shipment at the Humanitarian City.

Aid for Nepal earthquake victims prepared for shipment at the Humanitarian City. Image Credit: Clint Egbert/Gulf News

Dubai: UN-coordinated relief from Dubai to quake-hit Nepal has slowed because of “constraints” in Nepal, an official said.

Heavy relief flights cannot land in the capital Kathmandu because of runway damage.

“UNHRD’s Dubai depot is “vital” owing to its storage, location, logistics, infrastructure and cost. “It’s key, number one,” said Stefano Peveri, Deputy Network Coordinator, UNHRD.”

The restriction, which was not in place initially after the quake, is forcing a change in plans.

Stefano Peveri, Deputy Network Coordinator, UN Humanitarian Response Depot (UNHRD), said the agency has to contract smaller planes that cannot carry as much aid.

Also, Customs clearance in Kathmandu has been “a bit slower” than ideal in the emergency, he added.

An alternative plan is to have the heavy planes land in bordering India and move the relief by road into Nepal.

Peveri said UNHRD-led aid can also be sent by sea from Malaysia to India and then moved overland into Nepal.

Meanwhile, relief continues to fly out of Dubai, which is “key” to the humanitarian assistance.

Two UNHRD-led rotations carrying a total of around 85 metric tonnes of food, water, medicine, shelter and hygiene supplies were recently scrambled.

A third flight of some 35 tonnes of relief, including communication systems, was expected to fly out on Tuesday night.

A fourth mission, carrying around the same tonnage and supplies, was expected to start either on Tuesday night or on Wednesday.

UNHRD has 65 partners — government and non-government agencies — working in relief efforts.

Its international network of six depots, including the one in Dubai’s International Humanitarian City (IHC), procures, stores and ships emergency supplies.

The Dubai depot is “vital” owing to its storage, location, logistics, infrastructure and cost.

“Normally, Dubai for the first two weeks is the most active HRD, especially in air operations. It’s key, number one,” Peveri said.

“We have to thank the support from IHC and the [UAE] government for this.”

A week ago, UAE state news agency WAM reported an order to establish a relief air bridge to Nepal. The directive came from His Highness Shaikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice-President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai.

The air bridge would see the shipment of over 450 metric tonnes and include aid items consisting of emergency health kits, water purification units, water storage and distribution units, blankets, tents, tarpaulin, jerry cans, buckets, plastic sheets, solar lamps, communications equipment and food items.

Shaikh Mohammad also instructed a donation of 100,000 pouches of “Salma Halal Food” ready-to-eat-meals dedicated to emergency responses.

IHC is running the air bridge in coordination with UN agencies, International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent, and a number of international humanitarian organisations to mobilise the relief supplies.

Also last week, an Emirates Red Crescent convoy of 100 trucks carrying 1,200 tonnes of humanitarian assistance left India for Nepal as part of the UAE relief programme.

Peveri said “there’s still a lot of need on the ground. The more time passes, the more critical the situation becomes”.

Aid workers are tying to reach survivors in remote areas cut off by road damage. Nepal has said there aren’t enough helicopters to meet immediate demand for relief in far-flung parts.

The violent quake struck the mountainous landlocked country on April 25. More than 7,000 people are now known to have died.
</text>