<url>
http://www.merinews.com/article/the-other-side-of-nepal-earthquake-israeli-gay-parents-and-babies-airlifted-from-nepal-to-safety/15906072.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
The other side of Nepal Earthquake: Israeli gay parents and babies airlifted from Nepal to safety
</headline>

<text>
The Nepal Earthquake has destroyed many lives. People who have departed have left behind devastated families and a lot of heartaches for the survivors. However, not all is bad about the situation as two dozen babies, who were born to surrogate Nepalese women form Israeli gay men have been airlifted out of the danger's way on Monday by the Israeli government. Some of the infants were prematurely born when the Earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday killing some 4300 people.

The military plane, which delivered these babies to their fathers, had previously delivered medical assistance to the Nepal. As was reported by dailymail.com, Israel has said that as many as 25 babies born to Nepalese surrogate mothers would be evacuated from the country safely into the arms of their waiting families. Many of the Israeli gay couple had traveled to Kathmandu themselves to take their child from safely back to their country.

In Focus

Along with the babies, four surrogate mothers were also airlifted into safety so that they can have safe delivery. Although Israel is the only Middle East country and the only Asian country to give legal status to same sex couple, yet law doesn't allow them to procreate through surrogacy (a thing allowed to heterosexuals). Hence many come to Nepal with their partners and father their own child via surrogacy. Normally surrogate parents spend one month in Nepal for their child's birth, but not this time.

A father, who has a three weeks baby, talks about his ordeal and his wait for the rescue team to come to him and said, ''We don't know when they will get here. The water is going to finish and I am with a small baby. There is very little food and no electricity, although sometimes there is a generator.'' He further added his experience about the actual event, ''I grabbed the baby, ran down three floors and out to open space. All around us, small buildings were collapsing and people were terrified.''

Israeli President Benjamin Netanyahu has already lent his support to the people of Nepal via twitter and has tweeted, ''PM Netanyahu, on behalf of the Israeli people, conveys his condolences to the people of Nepal. Israel will render any assistance required.'' Apart from moral support, a 80 member search team has also been sent out for assistance prior to the medical assistance.
</text>