<url>
http://www.newindianexpress.com/world/Latest-Updates-on-Nepal-Earthquake/2015/04/28/article2787327.ece
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Latest Updates on Nepal Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
12.15 p.m. (0630 GMT)

An expedition doctor and base camp manager for a trekking group says that all those injured in Saturday's quake-triggered avalanche have been evacuated and the dead bodies flown out.

Dr. Nima Namgyal Sherpa says at least five teams are still waiting to hear if they will get permission to scale the summit.

Sherpa says they "have not made the decision to quit yet."

The others are now salvaging whatever they can and planning to trek down from base camp, Sherpa told The Associated Press in a WhatsApp message.

The government will decide within the week whether they'll close the mountain or allow the climbers to proceed. At least 18 people were killed in the avalanche and more than 4,400 in the earthquake.

Noon (0615 GMT)

The World Food Program says 1.4 million people are in need of immediate help following last week's earthquake that killed more than 4,400 people, most of them in Nepal

WFP emergencies officer Geoff Pinnock says it has identified eight places that are in need of critical help and "our focus is on relief operations in those places."

Those areas in Gorkha district, where the earthquake was centered, are Ghyachol, Saurpani, Warpak, Larpak, Gundra, Lapa, Kashigaun and Kerauja.

11 a.m. (0515 GMT)

An American doctor working at a hospital in Kathmandu, says about 90 percent of the houses are "just flattened" in Gorkha district, and hundreds of thousands of people are homeless after Saturday's earthquake.

Rebecca McAteer says her team was the first to arrive in many places in Gorkha, where the earthquake's epicenter was located. More than 4,400 people were killed in the earthquake.

She said these villages have very poor infrastructure with flimsy homes, and the residents are mostly older women and men, and children.

She said "the young men have all left to look for work elsewhere."

10.45 a.m. (0500 GMT)

Italy's Foreign Ministry says four Italians are believed to be among those killed in the earthquake in Nepal over the weekend that killed more than 4,400 people.

The ministry says that based on information from their travel companions they were killed in the Langtang area, but noted that the area is still hard to access.

The ministry also said its crisis unit had not been able to reach about 40 Italian citizens believed to have been in the area.

10.00 a.m. (0415 GMT)

Army troops are loading blue tarpaulin sheets, medical kits and dehydrated food, water bottles, sacks of rice and blankets at a flat area that is being used as a helipad in Gorkha town.

Gorkha district was the epicenter of Saturday's magnitude 7.8 earthquake that has killed more than 4,300 people.

With the weather clearing it seems that for now helicopters will be able to pick up the supplies and relay to smaller villages.

The weather has been erratic over the last two days — there has been some rain and cloud cover making it difficult for helicopters to land in some areas close to the epicenter.

9.45 a.m. (0400 GMT)

A team of 37 New Zealand urban search-and-rescue experts due to leave Monday night for Kathmandu has been told at the 11th hour not to come.

New Zealand Foreign Minister Murray McCully said in a statement that Nepal's government had informed him they had enough expertise in the country and the team was no longer required.

New Zealand has contributed 1 million New Zealand dollars ($761,000) to the relief effort following Saturday's earthquake that killed more than 4,300 people.

9.30 a.m. (0345 GMT)

Army troops are loading bags of rice and cornmeal into a storage room at the district headquarters in Gorkha, the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake was located.

District official Surya Mohan Adhikari says the supplies will be sent out later in the day to villages that need them most.

He said that in the rural areas 90 percent of the people have been affected "by this calamity. They have lost their homes and livestock. They have no way of getting food."

He says it is very difficult to reach them. They are cut off by landslides on the mountain roads, and the wind and rain is making it difficult for helicopters to land.

Adhikari said they have reports of some 300 casualties, but that number is rising. Nationwide, more than 4,300 people have been killed in the magnitude 7.8 quake.

9.00 a.m. (0315 GMT)

A Nepal police official says at least 4,352 bodies have so far been recovered after last week's massive earthquake that struck just outside of capital Kathmandu.

Deputy Inspector General of Police Komal Singh Bam says the toll includes 1,176 bodies recovered in Sindhupalchuk district, just northeast of the capital.

He says 8,063 people have been injured in the magnitude 7.8 quake.

Another 18 people were also killed in a quake-triggered avalanche that swept the Everest base camp. In neighboring India 61 people were killed and China's official Xinhua News Agency reported 25 dead in Tibet.

8.45 a.m. (0300 GMT)

A local seismologist says major aftershocks are now unlikely to occur as the 72-hour mark after Saturday's devastating earthquake approaches.

Lok Bijaya Adhikari, chief of Nepal's National Seismological Center, says the number and strength of aftershocks have been receding. There have been more than 100 aftershocks since Saturday's magnitude 7.8 temblor that left more than 4,300 people confirmed dead so far. The largest of these was magnitude 6.7 on Sunday.

The ground shook Tuesday morning at 5 a.m. but measured only magnitude 4.5.

Smaller aftershocks are expected to continue for a month and Kathmandu residents could continue to feel tremors because the epicenter is close to the city.

8.15 a.m. (0230 GMT)

Health workers fear a major health crisis among the survivors of Saturday's massive earthquake who are living in the open or in crowded tents with no access to sanitation or clean water.

Baburam Marasini, director of Nepal's Epidemiology and Disease Control Division, says their main concern is making sure people get clean water.

He says "we fear diseases." He says the department is asking people to take precautions such as eating with a clean spoon and not with their hands as most people here normally do.

He says people are also being asked to drink clean water. Attempts are also being made to reach rural areas quickly where a clear picture of the death toll — now more than 4,300 — is still not available.

8.15 a.m. (0230 GMT)

A government official says business owners are being asked to open their shops amid anxiety among locals about dwindling food and medical supplies in the wake of Saturday's earthquake that has left more than 4,300 people dead.

Naindra Prasad Upadhaya, an official at the Commerce and Supplies Ministry says the government has made arrangements to pick up food and supplies directly from factories and distribute them free in areas where necessary.

Water has been the big issue. There will be more tankers bringing water to the areas where people are camped out in Kathmandu and surrounding areas, he says. Food will also be sent to the rural areas on helicopters, he says.

Police are on the lookout for businesses that are overcharging to take advantage of demand and scarcity, and such people will be arrested and punished, he said.

12:05 a.m. (1820 GMT, 14:20 EDT)

The State Department says at least four Americans have died in Nepal's earthquake.

Spokesman Jeff Rathke says all of the U.S. citizens were killed at the Mount Everest base camp.

He identified two of them as Thomas Ely Taplin and Vinh B. Truong.

The other two haven't been named yet, either because consular officials haven't confirmed their identities or their next of kin have not been notified.

The official death toll from the disaster has soared past 4,000 people, though that number is expected to climb significantly.

10:55 p.m. (1710 GMT, 13:10 EDT)

The United Nations says it is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund to help earthquake victims in Nepal.

U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq told reporters Monday that the funds would allow international humanitarian groups to scale up operations and provide shelter, water and medical supplies, and logistical services.

He said food trucks are on the way to affected districts outside the Kathmandu valley, and distribution of the food is expected to start Tuesday.

Citing government figures, Haq said an estimated 8 million people have been affected by the quake in 39 of Nepal's districts, and more than 1.4 million need food assistance, including 750,000 who live near the quake's epicenter in poor quality housing.

Haq said the U.N. humanitarian country team for Nepal is coordinating international relief efforts with the government and a clearer picture of needs is expected in the next 48 hours. He said the immediate priority will be search and rescue and debris removal to find and save people.

10:15 p.m. (1630 GMT, 12:30 EDT)

The U.S. Agency for International Development is contributing $10 million in assistance for the Nepal earthquake response and recovery efforts.

A statement from USAID on Monday says the money will be used to address immediate, life-saving priorities, including search and rescue efforts, emergency shelters and clean water.

10 p.m. (1615 GMT, 12:15 p.m. EDT)

The Pentagon says two teams of U.S. Army Green Beret soldiers happened to be in Nepal when the deadly earthquake struck Saturday and are staying to help with search and relief efforts.

A Pentagon spokesman, Col. Steve Warren, says the 26 U.S. soldiers were in Nepal for high-altitude and other training with the Nepalese army. The 11-person crew of a C-130 cargo plane that brought them to Nepal also is remaining in case of a request to evacuate any American citizens.

In addition, Warren says that a second U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane carrying members of a Los Angeles urban search and rescue team is due to arrive in Nepal on Tuesday.

10 p.m. (1615 GMT, 12:15 p.m. EDT)

Oscar-winning director Bernardo Bertolucci says he "wanted to cry" when he saw the ruins of cities where he shot his 1993 film "Little Buddha."

Bertolucci said "I have tried in vain to recognize the places of my memory in the images of the ruins shown on television." He also expressed "great pain for the thousands of victims."

Bertolucci told the Italian daily La Repubblica in a story published Monday that his film crew had added its own structure as a set in Bhaktapur, where he filmed scenes about the prince Siddhartha before he became Buddha. The Nepalese wanted it preserved, so they left it standing.

"Now in the ruins of a city so ancient, there are mixed also the ruins of cinema, that we brought," Bertolucci said.

9:45 p.m. (1600 GMT, noon EDT)

The World Food Programme is sending food and aid supplies to Nepal to help people affected by Saturday's earthquake.

It says logistics and emergency response teams are already working in the country.

One of their crucial supplies is high-energy biscuits, which are often sent in the first stage of an emergency because the food items are small, easy to transport and do not require cooking. A charter flight carrying biscuits from a depot in Dubai is scheduled Tuesday.

9:15 p.m. (1530 GMT, 11:30 a.m.)

Malaysian actress Michelle Yeoh says she and partner Jean Todt are "blessed" to be home safe in Paris after evacuating their hotel during the earthquake in Nepal on Saturday.

The "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" star says while they are home, their hearts are in Nepal and she thanked friends for keeping them safe. Todt heads the FIA motorsports organization.

In a statement provided to AP, Yeoh wrote Monday that they were in a ground-floor showroom when the quake struck. "We were thrown off our feet." Security personnel rushed people into the open, and they stayed outdoors for hours as aftershocks continued.

She said the tensest moment was when they briefly went back into their damaged hotel to retrieve their passports.

"We spent the night at airport, feeling the aftershocks throughout the night ... awaiting the possibility of a flight home like many others."

9 p.m. (1515 GMT, 11:15 a.m.)

Relief worker Brad Kerner of Save the Children says basic necessities are the immediate need in Nepal after Saturday's devastating earthquake, which killed more than 4,000 people. He also says waterborne and infectious diseases are a risk because people are living outdoors in crowded, camp-like situations.

Kerner says, "A lot of people are sleeping outside, so they are all homeless in a way. The longer people stay out of homes, and live in camps" clean water practices will fall short.

Save the Children was getting in medical teams. Kerner said: "We are making sure there is shelter, food and water available. We're handing out baby kits with blankets, soap, and other necessities for newborns, who are the most vulnerable in such situations."

8:45 p.m. (1500 GMT, 11 a.m.)

Help was pouring into Nepal from across the world, as countries big and small sent in medical and rescue teams to provide disaster relief.

A Nepal army spokesman says rescue workers and medical teams from at least a dozen countries were in Nepal helping local police and army rescuers.

Maj. Gen. Binod Basnyat said the teams were in different places in Kathmandu and surrounding areas. India has sent the biggest team with six helicopters and seven trucks. Seven Indian search and rescue teams and another seven medical teams were at work Monday in the worst-hit areas. They had rescued 10 people and recovered 40 bodies from the rubble of fallen buildings in different parts of Kathmandu.

China has sent a medical team and a team of experts to move through structures destroyed in the quake and help with search and rescue operations. Chinese doctors have set up a field hospital at the mountain resort town of Dhulikhel, 30 kilometers (18 miles) east of Kathmandu.

Even Nepal's tiny Himalayan neighbor, Bhutan, has sent a medical team to help the survivors of the quake.

Medical and rescue teams from Russia, Japan, France, Switzerland and Singapore were expected to arrive in Kathmandu over the next couple of days, the army said.

8:30 p.m. (1445 GMT, 10:45 a.m.)

The death toll from Saturday's earthquake in South Asia has surpassed 4,000 people.

Nepal police say on their Facebook page late Monday evening that 3,904 deaths had been counted in Nepal and 7,180 people were injured.

In addition, an avalanche caused by the earthquake Saturday killed 18 people at Mount Everest's base camp, 61 people were killed in neighboring India, and China reported 25 people died in Tibet.

The toll is expected to rise as assessments are made in vulnerable mountain villages that have been inaccessible since the quake.

8 p.m. (1415 GMT, 10:15 a.m.)

Traffic jams happen all the time on the narrow, two-lane road heading north from Nepal's capital of Kathmandu into the Gorkha district. Small landslides and impatient drivers regularly combine to stop transportation, sometimes for hours.

When it happens, drivers mingle, owners of little stalls sell potato chips and drinks, and everyone waits. And waits.

Two days after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake, the situation was critical, and the road was, like so much else in Nepal, a scene of chaos. Hundreds of heavy trucks, buses and cars stood still. Those waiting included rescue workers and trucks bringing food and supplies for the injured and homeless in Gorkha, the epicenter of Saturday's quake.

"This traffic jam, it is nothing new," said Uma Shankar Prasad, a 32-year-old Indian construction worker heading back home because he was terrified that more earthquakes could happen. "Traffic jams happen all the time. I'll wait as long as it takes."

The jam, though, made room for no one.

As darkness fell Monday evening, the traffic showed no sign of moving.

7:30 p.m. (1345 GMT, 9:45 a.m.)

An engineer who works on earthquake risks says the 7.8-magnitude temblor that struck on Saturday may not be the Big One for Nepal.

GeoHazards International's Hari Kumar says: "We were expecting an 8-magnitude to happen along the Himalayas, this is not it."

Kumar is the Southeast Asia regional coordinator for the non-profit group that works on assessing and managing quake risks worldwide.

Immense seismic pressure is still building up along the Nepal-India border, and he says, "The stress which was developing west of this earthquake has not been released."

Nepal's worst recorded earthquake was an 8.0-magnitude temblor in 1934 that all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.

Kumar said he hoped Nepal would be able to look beyond the horror and see a chance to rebuild properly. "For Kathmandu, this is their moment of change. I know it is a tragic time, many of their buildings are (fallen) down, but I think this is their time to turn it around."

7:15 p.m. (1330 GMT, 9:30 a.m.)

World Vision aid worker Matt Darvas reached Nepal's Gorkha district, the epicenter of Saturday's powerful quake, early Monday afternoon. He said almost no aid had reached there ahead of him.

He told the AP by telephone: "It does not seem aid is reaching here very quickly."

Landslides and other destruction delayed attempts to reach the district earlier, but Gorkha is feared to have extensive damage.

Darvas says most of the newer concrete buildings were intact after the quake but remote mountainside villages were reportedly devastated.

He says, "Further north from here the reports are very disturbing." He says up to 75 percent of the buildings in Singla may have collapsed and the village, a two-days walk away, has been out of contact since Saturday night.

Local officials lost contact with military and police who set out for Singla, and Darvas says helicopters have had to turn back because of clouds.

He says a few SUVs with foreign tourists bringing basic aid supplies had begun to reach Gorkha by early evening.
</text>