<url>
http://www.news.com.au/national/nsw-act/nepal-earthquake-tent-cities-have-taken-over-the-kathmandu-skyline/story-fnii5s3x-1227325961503
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Tent cities have taken over the Kathmandu skyline
</headline>

<text>
TENT cities have taken over the Kathmandu skyline as locals begin burning the dead and hundreds of Nepalese-Australians make the pilgrimage home to help build shelters for stranded families andfriends.

Red Cross officials have been flown in from across the globe including Australia to work on providing emergency shelters and clean water as the threat of disease looms.

PACKED TO THE RAFTERS STAR HUGH SHERIDAN ARRIVES IN NEPAL

NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: INSIDE KATHMANDU’S DURBAR SQUARE

The Daily Telegraph witnessed thousands of Kathmandu locals sharing orange and blue tents as families cooked meals for each other.

After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.

Large smoke plumes could be seen near the centre of Kathmandu where campsites have been set-up as families cremate the dead.

Luxury resorts were locking their gates after allowing thousands of stranded foreigners and locals to use their facilities.

The Daily Telegraph arrived in Kathmandu alongside Red Cross shelter and water advisers from Australia, members of the elite European search and rescue unit, specialist search dogs, Japanese doctors and Australian-based Nepalese desperate for information on their loved ones.

Ancient temples and buildings they knew of as children now lie in ruins.

One Nepalese man was returning to search for up to 10 relatives living in a building destroyed by the weekend’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Prajwal Pradhan - known as PJ in Sydney - arrived back to Nepal on the same flight as The Daily Telegraph anxious to reunite with his 11-week-old baby Layla and four-year-old daughter Tiya - both Australian citizens.

His wife Ekta Pant had travelled to Nepal last Thursday to visit her unwell mother before the quake struck.

PJ - an occupational therapist at Ryde Hospital - will spend a month in Nepal offering his services to the strained hospital system struggling to keep up with demand.

Mr Pradhan, whose young family is now living on the streets in fear of dangerous structural conditions, said many Nepalese did not want to be treated inside hospitals fearing fresh quakes.

Gold Coast-based Nepalese Ganesh Subedi immediately returned home after hearing of the destruction in his village.

While Mr Subedi’s family survived the main quake and aftershock in an area just outside Kathmandu, the damage is believed to be severe.

More than 50,000 Nepalese live, study and work in Sydney. Officials and NGOs are working fast to provide make-shift tent cities to accommodate displaced Nepalese.

World Vision and Red Cross have spent the last few days accounting for local and foreign volunteers and workers.

Extra DFAT staffers have also arrived to bolster staff numbers on the ground operating out of the Australian Embassy in Kathmandu.

French, Dutch and Italian search and rescue squads, with up to a dozen dogs, began working in rubble late Monday searching for survivors.

More crews from Korea, Japan and Germany arrived yesterday.
</text>