<url>
http://news.rediff.com/commentary/2015/apr/28/liveupdates.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Live! Baltimore riots: Police must do 'soul-searching', says Obama
</headline>

<text>
Write a comment

April 28, 2015

23:53 Baltimore riots: Police must do 'soul-searching', says Obama: President Obama condemned the violence in Baltimore this afternoon, saying there is "no excuse" for the violence, looting and arson that followed the funeral held for Freddie Gray, the 25-year-old African American who died after suffering a spine injury in police custody earlier this month."They're not protesting, they're not making a statement, they're stealing," Obama said in a jointpress conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. President Obama condemned the violence in Baltimore this afternoon, saying there is "no excuse" for the violence, looting and arson that followed the funeral held for Freddie Gray, the 25-year-old African American who died after suffering a spine injury in police custody earlier this month."They're not protesting, they're not making a statement, they're stealing," Obama said in a jointpress conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

23:41 Buses from UP release congestion at Kathmandu airport: Sharat Pradhan reports from Lucknow: Buses sent by the Uttar Pradesh government to facilitate evacuation of Indian survivors, stranded in Nepal on account of Saturday's devastating earthquake ,have released the congestion at Kathmandu airport.



Gorakhpur divisional commissioner Rakesh Ojha who was coordinating the relief arrangements made by the Akhikesh Yadav government , told this scribe over telephone, "The 80 buses sent by us on Monday would bring back as many as about 4,300 people stranded at Kathmandu."

He said, "The convoy of buses was flagged off from the Indian embassy at Kathmandu on Tuesday evening and should be in Gorakhpur by Wednesday noon." A number of people, hanging around the Tribhuvan International airport at Kathmandu, opted to return to India by buses, thereby bringing down the acute congestion at the airport. Buses sent by the Uttar Pradesh government to facilitate evacuation of Indian survivors, stranded in Nepal on account of Saturday's devastating earthquake ,have released the congestion at Kathmandu airport.

23:27 Calm returns to Baltimore after riots: Streets in Baltimore looked like a war zone Tuesday morning after a night of riots, fires and heartbreak.

"Too many people have spent generations building up this city for it to be destroyed by thugs who '" in a very senseless way '" are trying to tear down what so many have fought for,' Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said.

President Barack Obama spoke on the rioting Tuesday.Buildings and cars across the city were engulfed in flames. About a dozen businesses were looted or damaged. At least 15 officers were wounded, six of them seriously, the police commissioner said.

Image: National Guard troops stand watch along E Pratt St in Baltimore, Maryland. Photograph: Eric Thayer/Reuters

Read this story HERE Streets in Baltimore looked like a war zone Tuesday morning after a night of riots, fires and heartbreak.

23:16 Telangana encounter: HC says no to fresh autopsy of terror suspect: The Hyderabad high court today rejected the plea for the second postmortem filed by the father of a terror suspect, who was killed along with four others, in an alleged encounter in Nalgonda district of Telangana earlier this month.

Justice Vilas Afzalpurkar, who went through the counter affidavit filed by Superintendent of Police, Nalgonda, and the case record, found that there was nothing wrong in the way the first autopsy was conducted on Viquar Ahmed and that a second postmortem could not be ordered in a routine manner.

He observed that police had followed the due procedure in conducting the inquiry ordered by the concerned judicial authorities and that the petitioner--Mohammed Ahmed--did not dispute the first postmortem nor sought a second postmortem when police handed over Viquar's body to him.

A special investigation team, set up by the government, is mandated to investigate the incident and also the lapses, if any, on the part of police. The Hyderabad high court today rejected the plea for the second postmortem filed by the father of a terror suspect, who was killed along with four others, in an alleged encounter in Nalgonda district of Telangana earlier this month.

22:41 Maharashtra team finalises purchase of Ambedkar's London home: A high-level team from the Maharashtra government has finalised the purchase of a home, costing around four million pounds, where Dr B R Ambedkar lived during his student days in London.



"This is a historical moment for us because it is not just a house but has the emotions of all Indians attached to it. This has been a very fruitful visit and we expect the formalities regarding the purchase to be completed by the end of May," said Rajkumar Badole, Maharashtra's minister of social justice and special assistance. The architect of India's Constitution and dalit rights activist had spent around a year at the three-storey town house on King Henry's Road in north London in 1921-22 when he was studying at London School of Economics. A high-level team from the Maharashtra government has finalised the purchase of a home, costing around four million pounds, where Dr B R Ambedkar lived during his student days in London.

22:37 Nepal quake: Bodies of father-son duo brought back to Srinagar: Mukhtar Ahmad reports from Srinagar:

Bodies of the father-son duo who were killed in the devastating earthquake in Nepal last week reached Jammu late on Tuesday afternoon. Authorities also airlifted 36 Kashmiris including three injured persons from Nepal to Delhi and then to Srinagar. The three injured persons including a woman were shifted to the police hospital immediately after their arrival in Srinagar in a special ambulance. It may be mentioned that the Jammu and Kashmir police had established a special helpline for the people of the state who were stranded in the tremor affected area of Nepal. The police control room in Kashmir remained in constant touch with the control rooms of the MEA in New Delhi and Kathmandu, the statement added.

22:28 Modi hails Nehru, asks youth to imbibe his scientific temper: Prime Minister Narendra Modi today hailed Jawaharlal Nehru and said the youth should take inspiration from him and imbibe his scientific temper.

Chairing the 41st AGM of Nehru Memorial Museum and Library Society here, he said the institution should attempt to reflect the thoughts of India's great leaders such as Nehru on contemporary themes such as good governance, a PMO statement said.

He said the youth of India could take tremendous inspiration from great leaders who made this nation. In particular, he emphasized the need for the youth to imbibe Pt Nehru's scientific temper, it said. Modi suggested that NMML should attempt to maximize the use of technology to achieve a global presence.

The work of NMML should also be expanded to various Indian languages to better reflect the diversity of India, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi today hailed Jawaharlal Nehru and said the youth should take inspiration from him and imbibe his scientific temper.

21:59 Hundreds of decomposed corpses discovered in Nigeria: Hundreds of decomposed corpses were discovered buried in shallow graves in the streets of the northeastern Nigerian town of Damasak this past weekend, according to local officials and a resident.

The town had recently been freed from the Boko Haram terror group in a joint Nigerian-Chadian military operation.

A provincial government committee was visiting the area as part of an effort to assess the level of destruction in towns that had been in the deadly grip of Boko Haram.

"We found hundreds of dead bodies in shallow graves and on the streets of Damasak during our visit," Damasak local government spokesman Babagana Mustapha told CNN on Monday.

Read full story HERE

21:10 President Ghani meets VP Ansari: Afghanistan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani met Vice President Hamid Ansari.



Afghanistan president Mohammad Ashraf Ghani had earlier in the day at the joint presser with PM Narendra Modi, pays tribute to Rabindranath Tagore.

"Kabuliwala gave Afghanistan a bigger brand image than we could have ever paid for, so I thank Tagore." Afghanistan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani met Vice President Hamid Ansari.

20:36 Nepal quake: J'khand CM, cabinet to donate month's salary: Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das and his cabinet members today decided to donate a month's salary as assistance to earthquake-hit Nepal and Bihar.

"Jharkhand will help (earthquake-hit) Nepal and Bihar. The Chief Minister and his ministers will give one month's salary each," Das' political adviser Ajay Kumar said here.

He said the state government would appeal to all the MLAs in the state to donate a month's salary towards relief measures.

20:21 Bihar hospital pastes 'bhukamp' stickers on injured: Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital kicked up a row today by pasting stickers on the foreheads of injured persons in the earthquake for identification, which were later removed.

Television grabs showed injured patients in a separate ward of the DMCH earmarked for earthquake victims with stickers reading 'bhukamp' (earthquake) on their foreheads.

Superintendent of DMCH Shankar Jha today expressed regret and said it would be immediately removed.

When minister in-charge for relief work for Darbhanga district Baidyanath Sahni was drawn to the controversial episode, he told PTI, "I inquired with the DMCH Superintendent on the issue and directed him to get it removed at once."

Sahni said he had asked the Superintendent to probe the matter and fix responsibilities.

20:04 India's response was like extending blank cheque: Nepal: Nepal today thanked India for extending a "blank cheque" and taking initiative in launching relief operations in the aftermath of Saturday's killer earthquake, which was followed suit by other countries.





We are thankful to the government of India that it was kind enough to extend a 'blank cheque' after the shattering earthquake. It has done tremendous work to provide help," he told reporters here. India took the initiative in relief operations, which other countries followed. Ambassador-designate of Nepal Deep Kumar Upadhyay also expressed concerns on "congestion on Kathmandu airport" that was hampering taking aid to the victims. "

"The Indian government has also accepted our request for special trains to border areas so that our people who want to return to their homes can go there. The service will be increased as per demand," he added.

Upadhyay said "I know we are two (countries), but we are receiving support like we are one. There is no problem of coordination between us. The aid will have a positive impact on us. It's a matter of human emotions." Nepal today thanked India for extending a "blank cheque" and taking initiative in launching relief operations in the aftermath of Saturday's killer earthquake, which was followed suit by other countries.

19:28 Land bill: Rahul Gandhi likely to visit Telangana next month: Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi, who travelled in a general bogie to Punjab to take stock of farmers' issues on Tuesday, is likely to travel to Telangana next month.



Rahul promised that his fight against the Narendra Modi government on its proposed land reforms is set to become "much bigger."

19:10 4000 people in 80 buses evacuated from Nepal : Approximately 4000 people left in 80 buses today. Land route has become the primary route as it is not affected by the weather, said foreign secretary S Jaishankar. This is the government's daily media brief on the Nepal quake relief and rehabilitation. Jaishankar also said buses are not going empty; they go with relief material, returning with people.

Approximately 4000 people left in 80 buses today. Land route has become the primary route as it is not affected by the weather, said foreign secretary S Jaishankar. This is the government's daily media brief on the Nepal quake relief and rehabilitation. Jaishankar also said buses are not going empty; they go with relief material, returning with people.

19:04 Nepal in numbers : 342 Indians have been evacuated by IAF, bringing the total number to 2,865, says Defence Secy RK Mathur.



Three NDRF teams reached Nepal today; 3 more teams reaching today, making it a total of 16 teams in Nepal, LC Goyal, Home Secy, said.

342 Indians have been evacuated by IAF, bringing the total number to 2,865, says Defence Secy RK Mathur.Three NDRF teams reached Nepal today; 3 more teams reaching today, making it a total of 16 teams in Nepal, LC Goyal, Home Secy, said.

19:02 Army steps up R&R in Nepal, help reaches quake epicentre : Indian government briefing on the rescue and rehabilitation efforts in the wake of the Nepal quake. Foreign secretary S Jaishankar says that full assistance has been assured to states, but no assistance sought from them. Home Secretary LC Goyal said that as per the latest reports, the remains of 6 tourists from Assam have been handed over to their families, while the number of Indian fatalities go up by seven, which brings it to 79. .



The Indian Army today intensified its efforts towards rescuing and evacuating quake-affected people in Nepal. The army said it has been able to reach far flung areas like Barpak, which is also the epicenter of the earthquake and is currently in the process of providing succor to the people in this area with an emphasis on saving precious lives. This is what has been inducted by the army today...



-- Four ALH and two Cheetah helicopters has completed their sorties and are located close to the epicenter of earthquake.



-- Three field hospitals (18 Medical Teams) are operating in Kathmandu, Pokhara and areas around it. A 45-bed hospital has been established at Lagankhel. Medical support provided so far includes 65 surgeries, 540 trauma cases and over 2000 first aid cases.



-- Apart from this, 10,000 Blankets, 1,000 tents and an equal number of tarpaulins and plastic sheets are being sent. So far approximately 3,000 blankets and 100 tents have been sent.



-- At least 12 satellite phones been sent.So far, 41 tons of water, 22 tonnes of cooked food and dry ration have been sent. In light of its criticality, 25 food and water vehicles were diverted to Sindhupal Chowk. Indian government briefing on the rescue and rehabilitation efforts in the wake of the Nepal quake. Foreign secretary S Jaishankar says that full assistance has been assured to states, but no assistance sought from them. Home Secretary LC Goyal said that as per the latest reports, the remains of 6 tourists from Assam have been handed over to their families, while the number of Indian fatalities go up by seven, which brings it to 79. .The Indian Army today intensified its efforts towards rescuing and evacuating quake-affected people in Nepal. The army said it has been able to reach far flung areas like Barpak, which is also the epicenter of the earthquake and is currently in the process of providing succor to the people in this area with an emphasis on saving precious lives. This is what has been inducted by the army today...-- Four ALH and two Cheetah helicopters has completed their sorties and are located close to the epicenter of earthquake.-- Three field hospitals (18 Medical Teams) are operating in Kathmandu, Pokhara and areas around it. A 45-bed hospital has been established at Lagankhel. Medical support provided so far includes 65 surgeries, 540 trauma cases and over 2000 first aid cases.-- Apart from this, 10,000 Blankets, 1,000 tents and an equal number of tarpaulins and plastic sheets are being sent. So far approximately 3,000 blankets and 100 tents have been sent.-- At least 12 satellite phones been sent.So far, 41 tons of water, 22 tonnes of cooked food and dry ration have been sent. In light of its criticality, 25 food and water vehicles were diverted to Sindhupal Chowk.

18:43 Rescued under-14 girls football team captain thanks God, IAF: Blessings of the almighty and prompt action by IAF had helped the Indian under-14 girls football team escape the devastating earthquake in Nepal, its captain Soni Kumari said today.



Soni, who hails from East Champaran district of Bihar and team member Nisha Kumari of Siwan returned here last night from Delhi.



They were airlifted by an Indian Air Force plane from Kathmandu on Sunday evening.



"We were in the dressing room of Dasrath stadium in Kathmandu on Saturday and mentally preparing ourselves to face a tough match against Iran for the third place when suddenly the lights went off. Our coach started shouting at us to rush to the middle of the stadium ground.



"The entire team and support staff members immediately ran to the middle of the ground as the earthquake shook the ground. "We spent 5-6 hours in the field praying silently and saw so many high-rises collapsing around the ground," she said.



The team returned to their hotel room around 8 pm shivering in fear. But the quake struck for a second time that night and its members ran for safety to the hotel lawn and spent the night there, she recounted. Blessings of the almighty and prompt action by IAF had helped the Indian under-14 girls football team escape the devastating earthquake in Nepal, its captain Soni Kumari said today.Soni, who hails from East Champaran district of Bihar and team member Nisha Kumari of Siwan returned here last night from Delhi.They were airlifted by an Indian Air Force plane from Kathmandu on Sunday evening."We were in the dressing room of Dasrath stadium in Kathmandu on Saturday and mentally preparing ourselves to face a tough match against Iran for the third place when suddenly the lights went off. Our coach started shouting at us to rush to the middle of the stadium ground."The entire team and support staff members immediately ran to the middle of the ground as the earthquake shook the ground. "We spent 5-6 hours in the field praying silently and saw so many high-rises collapsing around the ground," she said.The team returned to their hotel room around 8 pm shivering in fear. But the quake struck for a second time that night and its members ran for safety to the hotel lawn and spent the night there, she recounted.

18:40 Ex-MLA booked on charge of spreading rumour on quake: A former two-time MLA in Bihar has been booked for allegedly spreading rumour about earthquake through WhatsApp, a senior police officer said today.



"The case has been registered against Dayanand Rai, the former MLA from Narpatganj in Araria district, with Sachivalay police station in this regard," Senior Superintendent of Police, Patna Jitendra Rana told PTI.



The two-term RJD MLA from 1990 to 2000 has been made an accused of spreading rumour through WhatsApp message that predicated high-intensity earthquake returning on last Saturday night. The SHO said in his complaint he saw people rushing towards a park on Saturday night, hours after Patna and other parts of Bihar along with Nepal witnessed a massive earthquake of 7.99 magnitude.



On inquiry about circulation of message from the people, name of the former legislator cropped up. A former two-time MLA in Bihar has been booked for allegedly spreading rumour about earthquake through WhatsApp, a senior police officer said today."The case has been registered against Dayanand Rai, the former MLA from Narpatganj in Araria district, with Sachivalay police station in this regard," Senior Superintendent of Police, Patna Jitendra Rana told PTI.The two-term RJD MLA from 1990 to 2000 has been made an accused of spreading rumour through WhatsApp message that predicated high-intensity earthquake returning on last Saturday night. The SHO said in his complaint he saw people rushing towards a park on Saturday night, hours after Patna and other parts of Bihar along with Nepal witnessed a massive earthquake of 7.99 magnitude.On inquiry about circulation of message from the people, name of the former legislator cropped up.

18:36 Rahul meets farmers in Punjab: Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi has met farmers in Sirhind, Punjab, as you read this. Rahul is visiting Khanna and Gobindgarh in Punjab today to take stock of the situation in the state's grain markets where farmers are finding it difficult to sell their produce after the recent unseasonal rains.



The visit comes at a time when farmers in the region have accused the government of tardy wheat procurement. The state has also been witnessed suicides by farmers. Gandhi will be travelling by train and is scheduled to reach the region by the late afternoon, sources said.



Congress leader Amarinder Singh had on Monday suggested that Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal stage a dharna along with his ministers outside the Prime Minister's Office to seek his attention on the farmers' issue.



Union Minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur dubbed Gandhi's visit to a mandi as a "drama".



Congress has been alleging that the Punjab government is not purchasing the produce of farmers adequately.



Gandhi had recently attacked the government, alleging that it was "ignoring" the farming community and favouring the industrialists and rich people. He has also accused the government of giving out contradictory figures about the damages suffered by farmers during the recent unseasonal rains. Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi has met farmers in Sirhind, Punjab, as you read this. Rahul is visiting Khanna and Gobindgarh in Punjab today to take stock of the situation in the state's grain markets where farmers are finding it difficult to sell their produce after the recent unseasonal rains.The visit comes at a time when farmers in the region have accused the government of tardy wheat procurement. The state has also been witnessed suicides by farmers. Gandhi will be travelling by train and is scheduled to reach the region by the late afternoon, sources said.Congress leader Amarinder Singh had on Monday suggested that Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal stage a dharna along with his ministers outside the Prime Minister's Office to seek his attention on the farmers' issue.Union Minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur dubbed Gandhi's visit to a mandi as a "drama".Congress has been alleging that the Punjab government is not purchasing the produce of farmers adequately.Gandhi had recently attacked the government, alleging that it was "ignoring" the farming community and favouring the industrialists and rich people. He has also accused the government of giving out contradictory figures about the damages suffered by farmers during the recent unseasonal rains.

18:14 An AN-32 aircraft with 2 tons of food material lands at Pokhara airfield.



An AN-32 aircraft with 2 tons of food material lands at Pokhara airfield.

18:07 Why Afghanistan is knocking on India's door: Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has tried striking up a new relationship with neighboring Pakistan by resisting reliance on its archival India.But after Islamabad failed to deliver to the negotiating table leaders of the Afghan Taliban who are believed to be hiding in Pakistan, Ghani is in now in India to renew Kabul's alliance with New Delhi. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has tried striking up a new relationship with neighboring Pakistan by resisting reliance on its archival India.But after Islamabad failed to deliver to the negotiating table leaders of the Afghan Taliban who are believed to be hiding in Pakistan, Ghani is in now in India to renew Kabul's alliance with New Delhi. Read more

17:54 Terrified Nepal patients want treatment in tents, not in hospital buildings: People injured in the deadly earthquake in Nepal are now so traumatised with fear that they prefer receiving treatment in tents rather than inside hospitals after several buildings collapsed burying hundreds of victims.



Kedar Prasad Srivastav, 75, is to be operated upon for an abdomen surgery, but he prefers to get treated in the open ground outside the Kathmandu Medical College (KMC) for fear of tremors and aftershocks after Saturdays quake that devastated the Himalayan nation, killing over 4,300 people with more than 8,000 others injured.



When he felt the tremors, Srivastav got himself shifted outside. The fear of the quake is such that he prefers getting treated in the open ground, amid rain, cold and mosquitoes.



We have been asking patients to shift indoors, but they simply refuse because of the fear of the quake, said Dr Sajipta Panth, a gynaecologist at the KMC.



Initially, even the doctors were fearing to operate on patients inside the buildings.

What do we do? If we have to treat the patients then even we have to stay safe.

For the first two days we operated patients inside the hospital. Now, we have a makeshift mobile operation theatre erected in the open ground of the Nepal Armed Police Force, said Dr Manoj Shah, another gynaecologist at KMC.



Meanwhile, medical help has started pouring in with teams of doctors arriving from different parts of the world.



India has set up three mobile hospitals at Lagan Khel, some 17 kms from the capital and Seni Mangal.



We have despatched teams at Barpak and Sindupalchowk (the two most affected districts), said Col R K Yadava of the Indian Army Medical Corps who also also have paratroopers with them.



So, just in case if we are asked to go into the interiors then we can be para trooped. Our team is well equipped and can even erect a mobile operation theatre in case of an emergency, said Major Abid Aman. People injured in the deadly earthquake in Nepal are now so traumatised with fear that they prefer receiving treatment in tents rather than inside hospitals after several buildings collapsed burying hundreds of victims.Kedar Prasad Srivastav, 75, is to be operated upon for an abdomen surgery, but he prefers to get treated in the open ground outside the Kathmandu Medical College (KMC) for fear of tremors and aftershocks after Saturdays quake that devastated the Himalayan nation, killing over 4,300 people with more than 8,000 others injured.When he felt the tremors, Srivastav got himself shifted outside. The fear of the quake is such that he prefers getting treated in the open ground, amid rain, cold and mosquitoes.We have been asking patients to shift indoors, but they simply refuse because of the fear of the quake, said Dr Sajipta Panth, a gynaecologist at the KMC.Initially, even the doctors were fearing to operate on patients inside the buildings.What do we do? If we have to treat the patients then even we have to stay safe.For the first two days we operated patients inside the hospital. Now, we have a makeshift mobile operation theatre erected in the open ground of the Nepal Armed Police Force, said Dr Manoj Shah, another gynaecologist at KMC.Meanwhile, medical help has started pouring in with teams of doctors arriving from different parts of the world.India has set up three mobile hospitals at Lagan Khel, some 17 kms from the capital and Seni Mangal.We have despatched teams at Barpak and Sindupalchowk (the two most affected districts), said Col R K Yadava of the Indian Army Medical Corps who also also have paratroopers with them.So, just in case if we are asked to go into the interiors then we can be para trooped. Our team is well equipped and can even erect a mobile operation theatre in case of an emergency, said Major Abid Aman.

17:52 India evacuates 170 foreigners from Nepal : Just in: India evacuates 170 nationals stranded in Nepal, from 15 countries. Spain was among the first countries to seek India's help to evacuate its citizens. "We have received requests from various countries to rescue their citizens," Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar said yesterday, when 30 foreign nationals were brought back.



However, just 24 hours later, MEA spokesperson Vikas Swarup tweeted this list today of 15 countries whose citizens had been evacuated by India. Spain with 71 citizens topped the list, followed by Poland with 33 citizens, all of who had been evacuated by both commercial and IAF aircraft.



India has announced a 30-day gratis visa on arrival for all foreigners evacuated to India.



Click on the picture for a larger image.

Just in: India evacuates 170 nationals stranded in Nepal, from 15 countries. Spain was among the first countries to seek India's help to evacuate its citizens. "We have received requests from various countries to rescue their citizens," Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar said yesterday, when 30 foreign nationals were brought back.However, just 24 hours later, MEA spokesperson Vikas Swarup tweeted this list today of 15 countries whose citizens had been evacuated by India. Spain with 71 citizens topped the list, followed by Poland with 33 citizens, all of who had been evacuated by both commercial and IAF aircraft.India has announced a 30-day gratis visa on arrival for all foreigners evacuated to India.Click on the picture for a larger image.

17:23 Home sweet home: Indians stranded in Nepal reach Delhi by IAF flights from Kathmandu today. Home sweet home: Indians stranded in Nepal reach Delhi by IAF flights from Kathmandu today.

16:59 All climbers at camps high up in Everest airlifted to safety: All the climbers who had been stranded at camps high up on Mount Everest by the earthquake and avalanches have been helicoptered to safety, reports Reuters.



Taking advantage of Monday's clear weather, three helicopters shuttled climbers all day from camp 1, above the impassable Khumbu icefalls, while others trekked back from camp 2 to be airlifted out.



Eighteen climbers at Everest base camp died in Saturday's avalanche that destroyed half of the tents there, according to Nepal's mountaineering association.



The huge cloud of falling snow and rock was triggered by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake that has killed more than 4,000 people across Nepal.



File pic.

All the climbers who had been stranded at camps high up on Mount Everest by the earthquake and avalanches have been helicoptered to safety, reports Reuters.Taking advantage of Monday's clear weather, three helicopters shuttled climbers all day from camp 1, above the impassable Khumbu icefalls, while others trekked back from camp 2 to be airlifted out.Eighteen climbers at Everest base camp died in Saturday's avalanche that destroyed half of the tents there, according to Nepal's mountaineering association.The huge cloud of falling snow and rock was triggered by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake that has killed more than 4,000 people across Nepal.File pic.

16:58 Ram Jethmalani shoots 12 questions to Arun Jaitley on black money: Former Union Law minister, senior lawyer and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Jethmalani put the Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the witness box and slapped him with a dozen questions on the Narendra Modi government's efforts on delivering its key poll promise on black money.



"Whether it was the previous government or the present one, my battle for the return of our national wealth illegally parked in foreign banks estimated to be around $1500 billion or Rs 90 lakh crore, back to our national coffers continues unabated," Jethmalani said in a half page advertisement published in the Indian Express newspaper.



He questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's studied silence and various recent government actions and termed these as "unpardonable betrayal.'



He has asked Jaitley 12 questions and promised, 'more would follow'.



"How many amended double taxation treaties have you entered into till date after becoming the finance minister?



"Was the statement of the new BJP president Shri Amit Shah that the promise of repatriation of black money was mere election 'jumla' made with your concurrence? You have never disowned it, and neither has anyone else in the government. This is confession enough in my opinion of an intentional fraud on the nation."



In October 2014, Jethmalani had written a letter to Jaitley and accused him of misleading the Supreme Court of India over the black money issue. Your action in approaching the Supreme Court with the kind of Petition that you have filed is one of the most ill advised steps taken, Jethmalani had written.



Will Jaitley respond to the 12 questions posed by Jethmalani? Watch this space.

Former Union Law minister, senior lawyer and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Jethmalani put the Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on the witness box and slapped him with a dozen questions on the Narendra Modi government's efforts on delivering its key poll promise on black money."Whether it was the previous government or the present one, my battle for the return of our national wealth illegally parked in foreign banks estimated to be around $1500 billion or Rs 90 lakh crore, back to our national coffers continues unabated," Jethmalani said in a half page advertisement published in the Indian Express newspaper.He questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's studied silence and various recent government actions and termed these as "unpardonable betrayal.'He has asked Jaitley 12 questions and promised, 'more would follow'."How many amended double taxation treaties have you entered into till date after becoming the finance minister?"Was the statement of the new BJP president Shri Amit Shah that the promise of repatriation of black money was mere election 'jumla' made with your concurrence? You have never disowned it, and neither has anyone else in the government. This is confession enough in my opinion of an intentional fraud on the nation."In October 2014, Jethmalani had written a letter to Jaitley and accused him of misleading the Supreme Court of India over the black money issue. Your action in approaching the Supreme Court with the kind of Petition that you have filed is one of the most ill advised steps taken, Jethmalani had written.Will Jaitley respond to the 12 questions posed by Jethmalani? Watch this space.

16:40 Indians return to Patna by train from Nepal. Indians return to Patna by train from Nepal.

16:39 Nepal PM Sushil Koirala calls an emergency meeting over the earthquake. Leader of opposition and Home minister to be in attendance.

16:37 IPL, politics, and more in Parliament : Not the land bill or the GST bill, but IPL was the topic of conversation at the Central Hall of Parliament today.



Cutting across party lines, many MPs wanted to know the real story behind IPL.



So, there was Congress MP Rajiv Shukla who was closeted with finance minister Arun Jaitley for over 40 minutes. Shukla is the also the IPL governing council chairman.



Interestingly, BJP senior leader Dr Subramanian Swamy who was in Central Hall cornered NCP leader Praful Patel and the two were seen having a intense conversation about IPL. So, does that mean Dr Swamy is keen to meet NCP chief Sharad Pawar? Is a new new friendship budding? BJP MP Anurag Thakur was also seen talking to Patel for more than 10 minutes. Join the dots and figure it out.

Not the land bill or the GST bill, but IPL was the topic of conversation at the Central Hall of Parliament today.Cutting across party lines, many MPs wanted to know the real story behind IPL.So, there was Congress MP Rajiv Shukla who was closeted with finance minister Arun Jaitley for over 40 minutes. Shukla is the also the IPL governing council chairman. Interestingly, BJP senior leader Dr Subramanian Swamy who was in Central Hall cornered NCP leader Praful Patel and the two were seen having a intense conversation about IPL. So, does that mean Dr Swamy is keen to meet NCP chief Sharad Pawar? Is a new new friendship budding? BJP MP Anurag Thakur was also seen talking to Patel for more than 10 minutes. Join the dots and figure it out.

16:11 Aam admi Rahul boards general bogie train to Punjab for farmers' rights: Congress VP Rahul Gandhi travels in a general bogie to Punjab to take stock of farmers' issues. Pic was tweeted by ABP News.



Rahul boarded a train to Punjab at the New Delhi Railway station today. He will visit Khanna and Gobindgarh, called the "grain bowl" of Punjab, to take stock of the situation in the state's grain markets, where farmers are struggling to sell their produce after recent unseasonal rains.



"I've been told the condition of farmers is very bad. I want to see that myself," said Rahul wearing a T-shirt and his stubble.



He took a seat near a window on the train and promised that his fight against the Narendra Modi government on its proposed land reforms is set to become "much bigger." Congress VP Rahul Gandhi travels in a general bogie to Punjab to take stock of farmers' issues. Pic was tweeted by ABP News.Rahul boarded a train to Punjab at the New Delhi Railway station today. He will visit Khanna and Gobindgarh, called the "grain bowl" of Punjab, to take stock of the situation in the state's grain markets, where farmers are struggling to sell their produce after recent unseasonal rains."I've been told the condition of farmers is very bad. I want to see that myself," said Rahul wearing a T-shirt and his stubble.He took a seat near a window on the train and promised that his fight against the Narendra Modi government on its proposed land reforms is set to become "much bigger."

16:06 Landslide in remote northeastern province in Afghanistan has killed at least 52 people, reports AP.

15:45 Gunman shouting Allahu akbar in Bosnia storms police station: A gunman stormed into a police station in a northeastern Bosnian town shouting "Allahu akbar", killing a policeman and wounding two others, authorities said. The gunman was also killed during the attack yesterday in the town of Zvornik, police spokeswoman Aleksandra Simojlovic told The Associated Press. The Bosnian Serb police chief, Dragan Lukac, identified the man as Nerdin Ibric. A gunman stormed into a police station in a northeastern Bosnian town shouting "Allahu akbar", killing a policeman and wounding two others, authorities said. The gunman was also killed during the attack yesterday in the town of Zvornik, police spokeswoman Aleksandra Simojlovic told The Associated Press. The Bosnian Serb police chief, Dragan Lukac, identified the man as Nerdin Ibric.

15:37 All chopper-borne rescue ops called off in Nepal : All heli-borne rescue operations called off for today because of heavy rain. One IAF helicopter unable to return from Barpak, tweets Rahul Kanwal of Headlines Today All heli-borne rescue operations called off for today because of heavy rain. One IAF helicopter unable to return from Barpak, tweets Rahul Kanwal of Headlines Today

15:33 Embassy of India, Kathmandu, tweets: 56 buses carrying over 3000 people on the way to Gorakhpur.



15:32 Please clarify, Kejriwal asks his law minister about fake degree: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has sought clarification over his law minister's fake degree. The Congress on Tuesday demanded that Delhi law minister Jitender Singh Tomar should be sacked immediately after a Bihar-based university informed Delhi high court that his law degree was fake.



Congress leader Ajay Maken threatened to hold a massive demonstration outside Delhi secretariat on Thursday, if Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not remove Tomar from his ministry.



"Even after pointing it out to Arvind Kejriwal, we don't understand why is the minister still at his position," Maken said.



A Bihar-based university on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it has no record of Delhi law minister Jitender Singh Tomar completing his law degree from there. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has sought clarification over his law minister's fake degree. The Congress on Tuesday demanded that Delhi law minister Jitender Singh Tomar should be sacked immediately after a Bihar-based university informed Delhi high court that his law degree was fake.Congress leader Ajay Maken threatened to hold a massive demonstration outside Delhi secretariat on Thursday, if Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not remove Tomar from his ministry."Even after pointing it out to Arvind Kejriwal, we don't understand why is the minister still at his position," Maken said.A Bihar-based university on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it has no record of Delhi law minister Jitender Singh Tomar completing his law degree from there.

15:24 India keeps its promise to Nepal : A convoy of 5000 blankets, 500 tents, 50 tarpaulin and 800 plastic sheets left for Pokhra from Kanpur as part of India's relief and rehabilitation efforts for quake-hit Nepal.



India keeps its promise to Nepal.



Pic: Rescue operations by NDRF underway in Kathmandu.

A convoy of 5000 blankets, 500 tents, 50 tarpaulin and 800 plastic sheets left for Pokhra from Kanpur as part of India's relief and rehabilitation efforts for quake-hit Nepal.India keeps its promise to Nepal.Pic: Rescue operations by NDRF underway in Kathmandu.

15:12 PM to Nepal: You are not alone, we will rebuild your lives, homes : Both PM Modi and the Afghanistan president began their speeches acknowledging the devastation in Nepal. The PM addressing Nepal, said, "You are not alone at this moment of tragedy and trial. We will do everything possible with rescue and relief. And, we will certainly be there when you rebuild your lives and reconstruct your homes and heritage."



The death toll in Nepal stands at 4,350. But Nepal PM Sushil Koirala has said it could go up to 10,000. If it does, that would be even higher than the 8,500 killed in a massive 1934 quake, the Himalayan nation's worst disaster to date. Both PM Modi and the Afghanistan president began their speeches acknowledging the devastation in Nepal. The PM addressing Nepal, said, "You are not alone at this moment of tragedy and trial. We will do everything possible with rescue and relief. And, we will certainly be there when you rebuild your lives and reconstruct your homes and heritage."The death toll in Nepal stands at 4,350. But Nepal PM Sushil Koirala has said it could go up to 10,000. If it does, that would be even higher than the 8,500 killed in a massive 1934 quake, the Himalayan nation's worst disaster to date.

15:08 Ghani also said, Afghanistan and India are two countries that are bound by a thousand ties and millions of memories. "We are the only countries that need no introduction. Others have to overcome their past to build a future, we (Afg hanistan and India) can build a future based on our past. "

15:04 Full text of PM Narendra Modi's statement at the joint press briefing with Afghan President, Dr Ashraf Ghani. Full text of PM Narendra Modi's statement at the joint press briefing with Afghan President, Dr Ashraf Ghani. Read

15:00 Ghani began his address by expressing his sympathies to the people of Nepal.

"I have had the pleasure of visiting Nepal repeatedly, I have walked those mountains. Let me express my deepest sympathies to the people of Nepal," the Afghanistan Prez said.

14:54 Kabuliwala made Afghanistan a brand, I thank Tagore: Prez Ghani : Afghanistan president Mohammad Ashraf Ghani at the joint presser with PM Narendra Modi, pays tribute to Rabindranath Tagore. "Kabuliwala gave Afghanistan a bigger brand image than we could have ever paid for, so I thank Tagore."



He said that the shadow of terror haunts Afghan children, women and youth and that terror must be confronted and must be overcome. "We are determined to change regional nature of cooperation, terror cannot be classified into good or bad. We must be united both in region and globally to continue this phenomenon," Ghani said.

Afghanistan president Mohammad Ashraf Ghani at the joint presser with PM Narendra Modi, pays tribute to Rabindranath Tagore. "Kabuliwala gave Afghanistan a bigger brand image than we could have ever paid for, so I thank Tagore."He said that the shadow of terror haunts Afghan children, women and youth and that terror must be confronted and must be overcome. "We are determined to change regional nature of cooperation, terror cannot be classified into good or bad. We must be united both in region and globally to continue this phenomenon," Ghani said.

14:46 PM Modi: India will walk shoulder-to-shoulder with the Afghan people: PM Modi at the Indo-Afghanistan joint statement in Delhi: India will walk shoulder to shoulder with you and the Afghan people in a mission of global importance. Afghan children have a special focus in our efforts. President Ghani shared his impressive vision for Afghanistan's prosperity, based on its talent, resources and location. We are prepared to continue our support for capacity building of Afghanistan security forces. We in India admire courage and resolve of Afghan people to seek a future of peace and prosperity.



Pic: The delegation level lunch between PM Modi and President Ashraf Ghani.

PM Modi at the Indo-Afghanistan joint statement in Delhi: India will walk shoulder to shoulder with you and the Afghan people in a mission of global importance. Afghan children have a special focus in our efforts. President Ghani shared his impressive vision for Afghanistan's prosperity, based on its talent, resources and location. We are prepared to continue our support for capacity building of Afghanistan security forces. We in India admire courage and resolve of Afghan people to seek a future of peace and prosperity.Pic: The delegation level lunch between PM Modi and President Ashraf Ghani.

14:42 Rich Verma @USAmbIndia tweets: India has demonstrated its global leadership in recent weeks, 1st in Yemen & now in Nepal. We're grateful; We're impressed; We're inspired.

14:32 Dust storm and rain in eastern India. Dust storm and rain in eastern India.

14:31 30-day visa on arrival for foreigners entering India from Nepal : Embassy of India Kathmandu reaffirms that foreigners entering India from Nepal will be granted a gratis 30 days, single entry tourist visa upon arrival. This is what Home Minister Rajnath Singh had announced in Parliament yesterday.

Embassy of India Kathmandu reaffirms that foreigners entering India from Nepal will be granted a gratis 30 days, single entry tourist visa upon arrival. This is what Home Minister Rajnath Singh had announced in Parliament yesterday.

14:27 Cant blame UPA Land Acquisition Bill for stalled projects: RTI : As Congress VP Rahul Gandhi heads to Punjab to meet farmers over land procurement and the land bill, the land acquisition law passed by the previous government may not be the villain of the piece when it comes to stalled projects, according to data generated by a Right to Information (RTI) query. As Congress VP Rahul Gandhi heads to Punjab to meet farmers over land procurement and the land bill, the land acquisition law passed by the previous government may not be the villain of the piece when it comes to stalled projects, according to data generated by a Right to Information (RTI) query. Read more

14:05 NDRF suspends rescue ops in Kathmandu after heavy rain : Heavy rain in Nepal, most rescue operations have come to a standstill. Dust storm and heavy rain in eastern India (Bihar, UP, Jharkhand) as well. NDRF has suspended all relief operations till the rain subsides.



The National Disaster Relief Force on Monday said conducting salvage operations in the earthquake-hit Himalayan country is becoming a time consuming affair as the collapse pattern of the buildings in Kathmandu is much different and unique from what the force has experienced earlier.



"This is because the collapse of the standing structures and buildings is different from what we have seen in India. The buildings have gone down badly and we have to drill holes in maximum number of cases to go through concrete slabs or walls and get inside the rubble," NDRF Director General P Singh said.



This is a picture from the Baluwatar area of Kathmandu.

Heavy rain in Nepal, most rescue operations have come to a standstill. Dust storm and heavy rain in eastern India (Bihar, UP, Jharkhand) as well. NDRF has suspended all relief operations till the rain subsides.The National Disaster Relief Force on Monday said conducting salvage operations in the earthquake-hit Himalayan country is becoming a time consuming affair as the collapse pattern of the buildings in Kathmandu is much different and unique from what the force has experienced earlier."This is because the collapse of the standing structures and buildings is different from what we have seen in India. The buildings have gone down badly and we have to drill holes in maximum number of cases to go through concrete slabs or walls and get inside the rubble," NDRF Director General P Singh said.This is a picture from the Baluwatar area of Kathmandu.

13:51 War of words between Cong, BJP over PM's 'Scam India to Skill India' remark: Members from Opposition and treasury benches had a heated exchange of words in Rajya Sabha today over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks on foreign soil that he wanted to clean the dirt of 60 years forcing three adjournments in the pre-lunch session.



Rejecting the Opposition charge that Modi was lowering the dignity" of the country by making such remarks abroad, Leader of the House and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said the Prime Minister was "perfectly entitled" to say that his government will break away from what happened in last 60 years and give a clean government.



He also took potshots at both Janata Dal (United) and CPI(M) wondering whether they thought that India is not defamed by "acts of corruption" but by referring to those acts.



Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma raised the issue through a notice for suspension of business under rule 267 to discuss Modi's remarks in Germany and Canada alleging that the Prime Minister lowered the prestige and dignity of the country, a contention which was supported by members from other Opposition parties including Sharad Yadav of JD-U.



Vehemently countering the charge, Jaitley while he can understand the Congress benches getting upset with the talk of cleaning up corruption, he was surprised at the remarks of JD(U) chief Sharad Yadav and those of the CPI-M leaders.



"I am surprised with this new-found dialectics of the morals of the CPI-M. According to this new ideology ...India is not defamed by acts of corruption. India is defamed only when you refer to the acts of corruption," he said. Members from Opposition and treasury benches had a heated exchange of words in Rajya Sabha today over Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks on foreign soil that he wanted to clean the dirt of 60 years forcing three adjournments in the pre-lunch session.Rejecting the Opposition charge that Modi was lowering the dignity" of the country by making such remarks abroad, Leader of the House and Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said the Prime Minister was "perfectly entitled" to say that his government will break away from what happened in last 60 years and give a clean government.He also took potshots at both Janata Dal (United) and CPI(M) wondering whether they thought that India is not defamed by "acts of corruption" but by referring to those acts.Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma raised the issue through a notice for suspension of business under rule 267 to discuss Modi's remarks in Germany and Canada alleging that the Prime Minister lowered the prestige and dignity of the country, a contention which was supported by members from other Opposition parties including Sharad Yadav of JD-U.Vehemently countering the charge, Jaitley while he can understand the Congress benches getting upset with the talk of cleaning up corruption, he was surprised at the remarks of JD(U) chief Sharad Yadav and those of the CPI-M leaders."I am surprised with this new-found dialectics of the morals of the CPI-M. According to this new ideology ...India is not defamed by acts of corruption. India is defamed only when you refer to the acts of corruption," he said.

13:43 My family is safe. But my country is destroyed: Manisha Koirala : Nepal-born Bollywood actress Manisha Koirala tells Rediff.com that she is too shattered to say anything about what has happened in Nepal. "What can one say after a devastation such as this? I want to go to Nepal immediately. But what can I do? I'm stuck in Mumbai as the airport in Kathmandu is closed. I've made other travel arrangements and will be flying to Nepal soon. Luckily my family is safe. But my country is destroyed. "



Read more

Nepal-born Bollywood actresstellsthat she is too shattered to say anything about what has happened in Nepal. "What can one say after a devastation such as this? I want to go to Nepal immediately. But what can I do? I'm stuck in Mumbai as the airport in Kathmandu is closed. I've made other travel arrangements and will be flying to Nepal soon. Luckily my family is safe. But my country is destroyed. "

13:38 Chinese satellites providing weather data to quake-hit Nepal: China is providing regular update of weather to quake-hit Nepal with latest satellite images and forecast provided by Chinese Meteorological Administration.



Nepal has been checking the FY2E image series and the generated forecast of South Asia region round the clock through its receiver in Kathmandu, at a time when the Himalayan nation has been getting aftershocks after a major earthquake on Saturday.

China is providing regular update of weather to quake-hit Nepal with latest satellite images and forecast provided by Chinese Meteorological Administration.Nepal has been checking the FY2E image series and the generated forecast of South Asia region round the clock through its receiver in Kathmandu, at a time when the Himalayan nation has been getting aftershocks after a major earthquake on Saturday.

13:30 Indian Army sets up 45-bed hospital in Nepal: The Indian Army establishes a 45-bedded hospital at Lagankhel, Nepal. #Respect.



The Indian govt has also set up a camp in Raxaul which is looking after the safe return of Indians from Nepal, says Radha Mohan Singh, Union Agriculture minister, who along with Ananth Kumar and JP Nadda have been tasked with coordinating the relief effort in Bihar. Singh said he would be visiting the camp tomorrow.

The Indian Army establishes a 45-bedded hospital at Lagankhel, Nepal. #Respect.The Indian govt has also set up a camp in Raxaul which is looking after the safe return of Indians from Nepal, says Radha Mohan Singh, Union Agriculture minister, who along with Ananth Kumar and JP Nadda have been tasked with coordinating the relief effort in Bihar. Singh said he would be visiting the camp tomorrow.

13:19 Day 1 of Afghanistan president's 3-day visit to India begins : In other news, Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani on Tuesday met his Indian counterpart Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Rashtrapati Bhavan.



President Ghani was also accorded a ceremonial reception in the capital. Earlier in the day, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had called on President Ghani before the delegation-level talks between both sides.



Ghani is presently in New Delhi on a three-day visit and will have bilateral talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi today.



Vice President Mohammad Hamid Ansari would also call on the Afghan President at 4 pm.



Ghani will also address captains of Indian industry during his visit.



India and Afghanistan have a strong relationship based on historical and cultural links.



The relationship is not limited to the government level only. Both nations have strengthened ties through a strategic partnership agreement inked in 2011. In other news, Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani on Tuesday met his Indian counterpart Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Rashtrapati Bhavan.President Ghani was also accorded a ceremonial reception in the capital. Earlier in the day, External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had called on President Ghani before the delegation-level talks between both sides.Ghani is presently in New Delhi on a three-day visit and will have bilateral talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi today.Vice President Mohammad Hamid Ansari would also call on the Afghan President at 4 pm.Ghani will also address captains of Indian industry during his visit.India and Afghanistan have a strong relationship based on historical and cultural links.The relationship is not limited to the government level only. Both nations have strengthened ties through a strategic partnership agreement inked in 2011.

13:12 US announces fresh aid of USD 9 million for Nepal: The US has announced fresh aid of USD 9 million for quake-hit Nepal as it launched relief and rescue mission in the Himalayan nation, sending a disaster response team along with rescue dogs to search for survivors.



"We are working very closely with the government of Nepal to provide assistance and support. I am announcing that the US will provide an additional USD 9 million for Nepal earthquake response," the Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters in New York.



This is in addition to the USD 1 million already provided to the quake victims in Nepal on Saturday. The US has announced fresh aid of USD 9 million for quake-hit Nepal as it launched relief and rescue mission in the Himalayan nation, sending a disaster response team along with rescue dogs to search for survivors."We are working very closely with the government of Nepal to provide assistance and support. I am announcing that the US will provide an additional USD 9 million for Nepal earthquake response," the Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters in New York.This is in addition to the USD 1 million already provided to the quake victims in Nepal on Saturday.

12:57 Quake toll could reach 10,000, warns Nepal PM: Nepal PM Sushil Koirala has warned that the quake toll could reach 10,000, but assures that his government is working on a war footing on rescue and rehab.



Reuters reported that a Nepal home ministry official put the latest death toll at 4,350. If the death toll does reach 10,000, that would be even higher than the 8,500 killed in a massive 1934 quake, the Himalayan nation's worst disaster to date.



Responding quickly in one of its most extensive response to an international crisis, India has flown in relief material, rescue teams and medical supplies to quake-hit Nepal, where the death toll has soared past 4,000 and is expected to rise.



Also widening 'Operation Maitri', India has moved its rescue mission outside Nepal's capital into the epicentre of the devastating earthquake at Barpak village in Gorkha district, while its engineers opened up the road to Kathmandu from India.



The opening up of the road from India to Kathmandu means that relief materials and equipment can now be moved by road instead of just the air in the wake of the devastating earthquake in Nepal. Nepal PM Sushil Koirala has warned that the quake toll could reach 10,000, but assures that his government is working on a war footing on rescue and rehab.Reuters reported that a Nepal home ministry official put the latest death toll at 4,350. If the death toll does reach 10,000, that would be even higher than the 8,500 killed in a massive 1934 quake, the Himalayan nation's worst disaster to date.Responding quickly in one of its most extensive response to an international crisis, India has flown in relief material, rescue teams and medical supplies to quake-hit Nepal, where the death toll has soared past 4,000 and is expected to rise.Also widening 'Operation Maitri', India has moved its rescue mission outside Nepal's capital into the epicentre of the devastating earthquake at Barpak village in Gorkha district, while its engineers opened up the road to Kathmandu from India.The opening up of the road from India to Kathmandu means that relief materials and equipment can now be moved by road instead of just the air in the wake of the devastating earthquake in Nepal.

12:21 Better late than never, says Afghanistan's Ghani: Seven months after taking over as Afghanistan President, Ashraf Ghani arrived on his first state visit to India today. President Pranab Mukherjee received President Mohd Ashraf Ghani at a ceremonial reception this morning. Since his inauguration, Ghani had visited China and Pakistan. When asked whether the timeline of his foreign visits was a reflection of his priorities, the Afghanistan President used a popular Dari proverb, "Der ayad, durust ayad (Better late than never)." Seven months after taking over as Afghanistan President, Ashraf Ghani arrived on his first state visit to India today. President Pranab Mukherjee received President Mohd Ashraf Ghani at a ceremonial reception this morning. Since his inauguration, Ghani had visited China and Pakistan. When asked whether the timeline of his foreign visits was a reflection of his priorities, the Afghanistan President used a popular Dari proverb, "Der ayad, durust ayad (Better late than never)."

12:13 100 buses to evacuate quake-hit Indians from Nepal : On day 4 of the Nepal earthquake, a 100 buses sent by the Indian government to Himalayan country will carry stranded Indian nationals to Gorakhpur and Raxaul today from Kathmandu. The MEA announced that with the road becoming operational, buses are being organized between Kathmandu, Gorakhpur and Raxaul (the entry points to India).



In parts of quake-hit Bihar and UP, the PMO has said that union ministers Ananth Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh and JP Nadda will go to Bihar to take stock of the situation and co-ordinate the relief effort. The PM held a review meeting with Home Minister Rajnath Singh and top officials on the situation arising due to the earthquake.



The PMO has also announced that MoS Dr Jitendra Singh, a doctor by profession, has arranged to send free insulin to diabetes patients among the earthquake victims in Nepal. On day 4 of the Nepal earthquake, a 100 buses sent by the Indian government to Himalayan country will carry stranded Indian nationals to Gorakhpur and Raxaul today from Kathmandu. The MEA announced that with the road becoming operational, buses are being organized between Kathmandu, Gorakhpur and Raxaul (the entry points to India).In parts of quake-hit Bihar and UP, the PMO has said that union ministers Ananth Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh and JP Nadda will go to Bihar to take stock of the situation and co-ordinate the relief effort. The PM held a review meeting with Home Minister Rajnath Singh and top officials on the situation arising due to the earthquake.The PMO has also announced that MoS Dr Jitendra Singh, a doctor by profession, has arranged to send free insulin to diabetes patients among the earthquake victims in Nepal.

11:49 Relief for Shobhaa De: SC stays privilege motion : Just in: The Supreme Court has stayed the privilege motion moved against columnist Shobhaa De in the Maharashtra Assembly. The SC issues a notice to Pratap Sarnaik, a member of the legislative assembly, staying the breach of privilege motion issued against De.



Sarnaik stated that she had criticized the move of the government of making rule for Marathi language movies be shown on the prime time. Criticising Maharashtra government decision, Shobhaa De had tweeted, "No more pop corn at multiplexes in Mumbai? Dahi misal and vada pav only. To go better with the Marathi movies at prime time." Just in: The Supreme Court has stayed the privilege motion moved against columnist Shobhaa De in the Maharashtra Assembly. The SC issues a notice to Pratap Sarnaik, a member of the legislative assembly, staying the breach of privilege motion issued against De.Sarnaik stated that she had criticized the move of the government of making rule for Marathi language movies be shown on the prime time. Criticising Maharashtra government decision, Shobhaa De had tweeted, "No more pop corn at multiplexes in Mumbai? Dahi misal and vada pav only. To go better with the Marathi movies at prime time."

11:42 Tremors in Pakistan: Radio Pakistan reports that tremors have been felt in Peshawar, Dir Bala, Shangla, Swat, Malakand, Lower Dir and surrounding areas. Radio Pakistan reports that tremors have been felt in Peshawar, Dir Bala, Shangla, Swat, Malakand, Lower Dir and surrounding areas.

11:38 Salman Khan Arms act case: Court admits actors revision petition: A court in Jodhpur on Monday called for the record of the subordinate court regarding the case relating to illegal possession and use of arms by Salman Khan on the Bollywood actor's revision plea.



District and Sessions Judge, Jodhpur, Manoj Kumar Vyas, while admitting the revision petition moved by Salman for hearing, ordered summons of the record from the court of chief judicial magistrate and posted the matter on May 1 for detailed hearing.



Salman and a few other Bollywood actors were accused of poaching blackbucks on the midnight of October 1-2, 1998, during the shooting of Hindi movie "Hum Saath Saath Hain'.



Accused of carrying and using illegal arms also as he allegedly had arms with expired licence and a case under Arms Act registered against him thereafter, the actor, through his advocate, moved an application before the CJMs court in Jodhpur on April 22 demanding re-examination of five witnesses of the case.

A court in Jodhpur on Monday called for the record of the subordinate court regarding the case relating to illegal possession and use of arms by Salman Khan on the Bollywood actor's revision plea.District and Sessions Judge, Jodhpur, Manoj Kumar Vyas, while admitting the revision petition moved by Salman for hearing, ordered summons of the record from the court of chief judicial magistrate and posted the matter on May 1 for detailed hearing.Salman and a few other Bollywood actors were accused of poaching blackbucks on the midnight of October 1-2, 1998, during the shooting of Hindi movie "Hum Saath Saath Hain'.Accused of carrying and using illegal arms also as he allegedly had arms with expired licence and a case under Arms Act registered against him thereafter, the actor, through his advocate, moved an application before the CJMs court in Jodhpur on April 22 demanding re-examination of five witnesses of the case.

11:23 Smriti Irani's fiery speech in Parliament trends on social media : So, Union Minister Smriti Irani is trending on Twitter yet again, this time for her fiery speech in Parliament yesterday. Irani responded to allegations from opposition members on what they called, the "saffronising" or giving a Hindu tinge to education.



Irani had a direct face-off with Trinamool Congress member and historian Sugata Bose, who is also the grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.



Bose had criticised the HRD ministrys functioning over the past 11 months during the discussion on the Demand for Grants for HRD. The debate in Parliament yesterday was on the demand for grants for her human resource development ministry.



She addressed Dr Bose as 'that professor' and pointed her finger at him while replying to the debate.



This agitated the Trinamool Congress members and party senior Saugata Roy intervened. The way she raised her finger at an eminent historian like Prof. Sugata Bose is just not acceptable in the Lok Sabha. As an old-time member, I would like to submit that a Minister should not point a finger and ask a member, that too an eminent historian like Prof. Sugata Bose, to sit down."



Irani hit back saying, there was no question of an apology to him and addressed the TMC members in Bengali saying, "Aapni jokhon bolechhen, boshey shojjo korun. Aamar jobab aashete din. (If you have made allegations, then sit through my reply)," she said as Trinamool Congress MPs interrupted her.

So, Union Minister Smriti Irani is trending on Twitter yet again, this time for her fiery speech in Parliament yesterday. Irani responded to allegations from opposition members on what they called, the "saffronising" or giving a Hindu tinge to education.Irani had a direct face-off with Trinamool Congress member and historian Sugata Bose, who is also the grand-nephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.Bose had criticised the HRD ministrys functioning over the past 11 months during the discussion on the Demand for Grants for HRD. The debate in Parliament yesterday was on the demand for grants for her human resource development ministry.She addressed Dr Bose as 'that professor' and pointed her finger at him while replying to the debate.This agitated the Trinamool Congress members and party senior Saugata Roy intervened. The way she raised her finger at an eminent historian like Prof. Sugata Bose is just not acceptable in the Lok Sabha. As an old-time member, I would like to submit that a Minister should not point a finger and ask a member, that too an eminent historian like Prof. Sugata Bose, to sit down."Irani hit back saying, there was no question of an apology to him and addressed the TMC members in Bengali saying, "Aapni jokhon bolechhen, boshey shojjo korun. Aamar jobab aashete din. (If you have made allegations, then sit through my reply)," she said as Trinamool Congress MPs interrupted her.

10:59 No contact with home, Nepalese consulate staff in India worried : Officials of the Nepalese consulate in Kolkata are spending sleepless nights as they have not been able to get in touch with their families back home since Saturday, when the massive earthquake jolted the Himalayan country and killed over 4000 people.



"I have not been able to contact my family since Saturday. I don't know the condition of my family, whether they are alive or not. I am really tense," said Dulal, a person on the staff at the Nepal consulate.



Hit by severe shortage of food, water, electricity and medicines and buffeted by fear, tens of thousands of people are out in the open as quake-hit Nepal is desperately seeking international help to tide over the crisis.



Sita Basnet, a senior official of the consulate, said there are three more staff in the consulate, who are unable to get in touch with their family members in Nepal.



"Apart from Dulal, there are three more staff in our consulate, who could not make any contact with their family members. They are very tense. The communications lines are completely snapped... its very tough to get in touch with them," Basnet said.

Officials of the Nepalese consulate in Kolkata are spending sleepless nights as they have not been able to get in touch with their families back home since Saturday, when the massive earthquake jolted the Himalayan country and killed over 4000 people."I have not been able to contact my family since Saturday. I don't know the condition of my family, whether they are alive or not. I am really tense," said Dulal, a person on the staff at the Nepal consulate.Hit by severe shortage of food, water, electricity and medicines and buffeted by fear, tens of thousands of people are out in the open as quake-hit Nepal is desperately seeking international help to tide over the crisis.Sita Basnet, a senior official of the consulate, said there are three more staff in the consulate, who are unable to get in touch with their family members in Nepal."Apart from Dulal, there are three more staff in our consulate, who could not make any contact with their family members. They are very tense. The communications lines are completely snapped... its very tough to get in touch with them," Basnet said.

10:33 Earthquake shifts Kathmandu but Everest height unchanged: Experts: The earthquake that devastated Nepal and left thousands of people dead shifted the earth beneath Kathmandu by up to several metres south, but the height of Mount Everest likely stayed the same, experts said Tuesday.

The massive 7.8-magnitude quake on Saturday was the Himalayan nation's deadliest disaster in more than 80 years, killing more than 4,300 people and causing massive destruction.

According to early seismological data obtained from sound waves which travel through Earth after an earthquake, the ground beneath the capital Kathmandu may have moved about three metres (10 feet) southward, said University of Cambridge tectonics expert James Jackson.

Read more HERE

10:32 India's very own Arnold is an inspiration: Heard of India's very own Arnold?

Meet 28-year-old Anand Arnold, who battled cancer and paralysis at the age of 15 to become Indias first wheelchair bodybuilder.

Today, he is one of the greatest bodybuilding personalities in the world. And mind you, all his accomplishments have been without the help of any kind of enhancement drugs or steroids.

Read more about him, HERE

10:17 LeT, JeM to target Delhi using drones?: News reports on Tuesday said that intelligence agencies have alerted Delhi Police of a possible terror attack using drones in the national capital by terrorist groups Lashkar-e-Tayiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.

They have reportedly asked Delhi Police to be on alert about aerial attacks including unmanned drones.

The Delhi Police is now monitoring all aerial aircraft flying in the national capital as a precautionary move.

They have also been asked to identify people who have bought and sold drones.

The security agencies are on high alert after the release of 26/11 Mumbai attacks mastermind Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi from Pakistani jail.

09:36 38 Indian cities in high risk earthquakes zones: At least 38 Indian cities lie in high-risk seismic zones and nearly 60 percent of the subcontinental landmass is vulnerable to earthquakes.

Barring rare exceptions, such as the Delhi Metro, India's hastily-built cities are open to great damage from earthquakes.

The earthquake that devastated Nepal on Saturday and jolted northern India, damaging buildings as far apart as Agra and Siliguri, was expected by geologists, who have warned of more Himalayan earthquakes caused by the growing pressures of the sub-continent grinding into the Asian mainland.

Very few buildings in India meet the standards prescribed in "Indian Standards Criteria for Earthquake Resistant Design" -- first published by the Bureau of Indian Standards in 1962, the latest revision being in 2005.

These are not enforced, so almost no one knows such earthquake-resistant standards and guidelines for home-owners exist.

Read more HERE

08:52 Thousands volunteer to scour satellite images of Nepal quake: More than 4,500 people have volunteered to examine 14,000 square kilometres of satellite imagery collected over Nepal to help relief efforts after Saturday's earthquake killed more than 3,900 people, imagery provider DigitalGlobe Inc said.

DigitalGlobe spokesman Turner Brinton said the company captured clear imagery of the area on Monday with its WorldView-3 satellite that was being used by volunteers to tag damaged buildings, roads and other areas to help disaster teams on the ground.

The company, based in Longmont, Colo., said it had made its high resolution imagery of the affected areas available to relief groups and other responding to the devastating 7.9 magnitude earthquake.

Read more HERE

08:44 Modi to meet visiting Afghan President Ghani today: Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who arrived in India on Monday night on a three-day state visit, will on Tuesday hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Hyderabad House.

Although this is Ghani's first first visit to India after he became Afghan President seven months ago, he has already met Modi during the SAARC summit in Kathmandu last November.

Ghani had to delay his visit for a few hours following a major Taliban attack in Kunduz province, Afghan reports said.

Ghani had conferred with NATO's top commander General John Campbell and Afghan security officials on Monday following the Taliban attack on police and Army check posts in Kunduz.

On Tuesday, the Afghan President will be accorded a ceremonial welcome at Rashtrapati Bhavan and later go to Rajghat to lay a wreath at the memorial to Mahatma Gandhi.

External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj will call on him at the Dwarka Suite of Rashtrapati Bhavan after which he will leave for Hyderabad House to hold talks with Modi.

08:43 Shock turns into anger in Nepal: Shock turned to anger in Nepal today, as several people stricken by Saturday's devastating earthquake expressed frustration at what they said was their government`s slow response to the crisis.

Hospitals are full to overflowing, while water, food and power are scarce, raising fears of waterborne diseases.

The death toll from the massive earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday has risen to 4,310, the Home Ministry confirmed on Tuesday. The quake triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 17 climbers, including foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world`s highest peak.

A further 7,953 people are now known to have been injured in the quake, said Home Ministry spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal.

Nepalese officials have acknowledged they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster.

03:54 Israeli actions killed 44 Palestinians at UN shelters, says UN: A UN inquiry has found that at least 44 Palestinians were killed and at least 227 injured by direct mortar strikes and other 'Israeli actions' while sheltering at UN locations during last year's Gaza war.

The Palestinians said they would give the findings to the international criminal court.

Read this story HERE A UN inquiry has found that at least 44 Palestinians were killed and at least 227 injured by direct mortar strikes and other 'Israeli actions' while sheltering at UN locations during last year's Gaza war.

03:41 194 people from Maharashtra rescued from quake-hit Nepal: Nearly 200 people hailing from Maharashtra were today rescued from the quake-ravaged Nepal, where the State Government is sending medical teams and medicines to assist in relief operations.



"A total of 194 people from Maharashtra, who were stranded at Kathmandu Airport, were brought back to Delhi today. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and Revenue Minister Eknath Khadse are personally monitoring the rescue operation," an official from the chief minister's office said.

He said women, senior citizens and children are being given priority in the rescue operation.

"For now, we have arranged for housing of 61 people in Maharashtra Sadan (State Government guest house in Delhi)."

Principal Secretary (General Administration) Premsingh Meena said the government is sending four medical teams and a large stock of medicines from Maharashtra to help in relief operations in the quake-devastated regions of the Himalayan nation. Nearly 200 people hailing from Maharashtra were today rescued from the quake-ravaged Nepal, where the State Government is sending medical teams and medicines to assist in relief operations.

02:47 Africa's race to $1,000,000,000,000: Nigeria is set to be the first African country with an economy larger than $1 trillion, according to the latest projections from the US Department of Agriculture.

Africa's most populous nation, which recently held peaceful elections, revamped its gross domestic product data in 2014 and pulled ahead of South Africa to become the continent's largest economy with a GDP of $469 billion.



Read this story HERE Between now and 2030, experts predict annual growth rates as high as 7.92% resulting in a GDP of $1.05 trillion. Nigeria is set to be the first African country with an economy larger than $1 trillion, according to the latest projections from the US Department of Agriculture.

02:26 US, Japan boost defense ties with eyes on China, N-Korea: The United States and Japan are boosting their defense relationship, allowing Japan to play a bigger role in global military operations with an eye on potential threats from China and North Korea.

Read this story HERE The United States and Japan are boosting their defense relationship, allowing Japan to play a bigger role in global military operations with an eye on potential threats from China and North Korea.

02:19 Nepal quake: How does the search and rescue operation work?: 1 hour ago From the sectionAsiaInternational teams of rescuers and medical experts are arriving in Nepal to help hunt and care for earthquake survivors.

The United Nations, which estimates 6.6 million people live in the districts affected by the earthquake, is helping to co-ordinate rescue efforts.Many have been left homeless by the disaster and the country is already reported to be running out of water and food.

Read this story HERE 1 hour ago From the sectionAsiaInternational teams of rescuers and medical experts are arriving in Nepal to help hunt and care for earthquake survivors.

01:52 LeT letter threatens to blow up bus stand in Faridabad: A letter threatening to blow up a bus stand here, purportedly written by Lashkar-e-Tayiba, was found inside a security room near its gate, police said today. It was found by a bus driver yesterday at Maharana Pratap bus stand, commonly known as Ballabgarh bus stand.

In the handwritten letter, LeT and another militant outfit have claimed that they will blow up the bus stand on May 5, Investigating Officer Phool Kumar said, adding, police is verifying the letter's authenticity.

An FIR has been registered at Ballabgarh police station under Section 121A (conspiracy to wage war, or attempting to wage war or abetting waging of war, against the Government of India), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and other relevant sections of the IPC.

As precautionary measure, the police has enhanced security at the bus stand and all persons and vehicles entering its premises are being monitored. A letter threatening to blow up a bus stand here, purportedly written by Lashkar-e-Tayiba, was found inside a security room near its gate, police said today. It was found by a bus driver yesterday at Maharana Pratap bus stand, commonly known as Ballabgarh bus stand.

01:47 Jawan killed, another injured in landslide in J-K: An army Jawan was today killed while another injured when a truck carrying them was hit by a landslide on Jammu-Srinagar Highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir.

The army truck, which was on way to Udhampur from Banihal belt on the highway, was hit by landslide and an uprooted tree, the police said.

One Jawan died and another suffered injuries, they said, adding that the Jawan was identified as Naib Subedar Bimlesh Yadoo of Uttar Pradesh while injured as constable driver Ravi Shankar of UP.

Both of them belonged to 5171/ASC regiment, they said, adding that they were shifted to District Hospital, Ramban. An army Jawan was today killed while another injured when a truck carrying them was hit by a landslide on Jammu-Srinagar Highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir.

01:42 Kazakh leader apologises for 97.7% re-election victory: Kazakhstan's long-serving President Nursultan Nazarbayev apologised on Monday for winning re-election with 97.7 per cent of the vote, saying it would have 'looked undemocratic' for him to intervene to make his victory more modest.

Sunday's election gives another five year term to the 74-year-old former steelworker, who has ruled the oil-producing nation since rising to the post of its Soviet-era Communist Party boss in 1989.

Central Election Commission data showed turnout was 95.22 per cent. Kazakhstan's long-serving President Nursultan Nazarbayev apologised on Monday for winning re-election with 97.7 per cent of the vote, saying it would have 'looked undemocratic' for him to intervene to make his victory more modest.

01:13 Sanjay Joshi lauds Modi govt for help to quake-hit Nepal: Apr 27 (PTI) RSS leader and former BJP general secretary Sanjay Joshi today lauded the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government for providing generous help to the quake-hit Nepal.



"The Central government has made generous donation and also come forward to help and share the grief of the people of earth-quake affected Nepal," said Joshi, talking to media persons at Palanpur railway station. Joshi, considered as Modi's arch enemy, also said the Gujarat government had made good efforts to help the people of Nepal in the time of their distress.

He refused to comment when asked about the land acquisition bill. Apr 27 (PTI) RSS leader and former BJP general secretary Sanjay Joshi today lauded the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government for providing generous help to the quake-hit Nepal.

01:12 Indonesia executions 'will go ahead as planned': The executions of nine of 10 mainly foreign prisoners on death row in Indonesia will "go ahead as planned" and could take place as early as Tuesday, Indonesia's attorney general's office said Monday.

The condemned group includes Australians Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran, Filipino maid Mary Jane Veloso and prisoners from Ghana, Brazil, Nigeria and Indonesia.

Read this story HERE The executions of nine of 10 mainly foreign prisoners on death row in Indonesia will "go ahead as planned" and could take place as early as Tuesday, Indonesia's attorney general's office said Monday.

00:53 Model rape case: 3 accused cops suspended: Three policemen accused of raping and extorting money from a model were tonight suspended, while two officers have been transferred for "inept" handling of the entire episode.

Sunil Katape, Suresh Suryavanshi and Yogesh Ponde -- all policemen attached to MIDC Police station in the suburbs - have been placed under suspension, a senior officer said.

They are among the eight persons arrested in the rape-cum extortion case. All are in police custody till April 29. Besides, Senior Inspector of Sakinaka Police Station Prasanna More and DCP of the zone Prashant Holkar have been transferred for "inept" handling of the case, he said.

The 29-year-old victim had approached the Sakinaka Police Station for registration of an offence after being allegedly raped. Three policemen accused of raping and extorting money from a model were tonight suspended, while two officers have been transferred for "inept" handling of the entire episode.

00:28 US varsity says it is not attempting to ban religious symbols: The George Washington University here today said it is not attempting to ban religious symbols after reports emerged that the prestigious varsity is contemplating a ban on swastika, a sacred symbol for Hindus and Buddhists.

"The university has not banned nor is it attempting to ban religious symbols. Student organisations and individual students are free to examine and to discuss all questions of interest to them and to express opinions publicly and privately," George Washington University's Office said in a statement.

The comments came after media reports said that the university may ban swastika as the symbol as it resembles the Nazi symbol and could hurt the sensibilities of some Jewish students. The George Washington University here today said it is not attempting to ban religious symbols after reports emerged that the prestigious varsity is contemplating a ban on swastika, a sacred symbol for Hindus and Buddhists.
</text>