<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/cities/delhi/in-citys-pashupati-temple-nepal-residents-pray-for-kin/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
In city’s Pashupati Temple, Nepal residents pray for kin
</headline>

<text>
Saran, whose younger brother still lives in Nepal, said that for the days that followed, Nepalese people in Delhi converged at the temple as a source of information.

For pandit Yesu Saran and his helper Devi Lal, this past week has been about two pujas at the temple they have been serving for over a decade. But neither of them have been for an auspicious occasion. On Sunday, close to a hundred people, all from Nepal, came to the Pashupati Temple near Karkardooma court to pray for the well-being of their families, all in Nepal, devastated by the quake. Then, many had been unable to speak to their fathers, mothers, sisters and wives. Some have heard good news, most have heard stories of either loss or devastation. On the 12th day after the disaster, they will converge again, to pray for those that no longer remain.

Saran, whose younger brother still lives in Nepal, said that for the days that followed, Nepalese people in Delhi converged at the temple as a source of information. “There are thousands that live across Delhi, and they came here as a nodal point to see if anyone had news. For the first 24 hours, nobody could get in touch with their families, with all communication down. It was then that we organised a puja. Since then, everybody has spoken. Some have left for Nepal to see what is left of their homes. Others, like me, have been relatively unaffected and have stayed back,” Saran said.

But even as the temple, built with the assistance of the government of Nepal with a distinctly Himalayan architecture, now seems relatively deserted, many locals who visit the temple on a daily basis, only ask about news of Nepal. Every evening, as he cleans the temple in readiness for the daily puja at 7, Lal is repeatedly asked if his family was alive, even if he wants to avoid the question.

“My family is fine and my village has faced no damage. But people, many of whom live in nearby Vishwas Nagar, keep asking me questions. I don’t want to think about it. It makes me want to go back,” Lal said.

On the 12th day after the earthquake, many Nepalese residents of Delhi will again converge on the Pashupati temple for a yagna, to pray for those that have departed. But till then, the temple and the small eight-room dharamshala that are on the premises are serving another purpose. There are many Nepali organisations in Delhi and that are collecting relief material, and some of it is coordinated from here. Saran said, “Right now, that helps better than prayer.”

Video of the day

For all the latest Cities News, download Indian Express App
</text>