<url>
http://www.muscatdaily.com/Archive/World/Over-1-500-feared-dead-in-Nepal-quake-402i
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Over 1,500 feared dead in Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
Several buildings were toppled in Kathmandu, while an avalanche buried parts of Mt Everest’s base camp where hundreds of mountaineers had gathered at the start of the climbing season

A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed hundreds of people on Saturday as it ripped through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering an avalanche that hit Everest base camp.

Officials said that more than 1,500 people are known to have died in Nepal but that the toll could be much higher, while more than two dozen people were also reported killed in neighbouring India, China and Bangladesh.

“The death toll based on information received on our network across the country has reached more than 1,500,” said Nepal’s national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam. “Deaths have been reported from all regions except the far west.

All our security personnel have been deployed to rescue and assist those in need.” Officials said an avalanche had buried parts of Mt Everest’s base camp in Nepal where hundreds of mountaineers have gathered at the start of the annual climbing season.

“An avalanche from Mt Pumori has hit the base camp, burying a part of it,” said Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha, an official in Nepal’s tourism department.

“We are trying to assess how many are injured. There might be over 1,000 people there right now, including foreign climbers and Nepalese supporting staff."

AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment to Everest, was among those caught up in the chaos and reported that snowfall meant it was impossible for helicopters to reach the area.

Two experienced mountaineers said that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been severely damaged, while one said the quake triggered a huge avalanche.

While contact with Nepal was sporadic, a senior Nepalese diplomat warned that the final toll could run into many hundreds. “We have received reports that there is a big loss of property and life in Nepal,” Krishna Prasad Dhakal, the deputy chief of mission at Nepal’s Embassy in New Delhi, said.

“Possibly hundreds of people have died in various parts of the country, particularly in Kathmandu and Pokhara.”

The United States Geological Survey (USGS) and India’s meteorological service said the shallow quake struck 77km (48 miles) north-west of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. “The walls of houses have collapsed around me onto the road. All the families are outside in their yards huddled together,” an AFP reporter said in Kathmandu.

Another resident recounted scenes of panic and mayhem.

“Everything started shaking. Everything fell down. The walls around the main road have collapsed. The national stadium’s gates have collapsed,” Anupa Shrestha said.

The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country’s only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.

“It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming,” Cuelenaere said.

“Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising...There were many (rescue) helicopters. Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake. Initially measured at 7.5 magnitude, the quake was later adjusted to 7.8, with a depth of 15km the USGS said.

It hit 73km east of the tourist town of Pokhara. Witnesses and media reports said the tremors lasted between 30 seconds and two minutes. At least 26 people were known to have died in India, including 17 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated.

“We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal,” Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. China’s official Xinhua news agency said that two people, including an 83 year old woman, were killed in the Tibet region as a result of the quake.

The earthquake was also felt across large areas of Bangladesh, triggering panic in the capital Dhaka as people rushed out onto the streets. In the garment manufacturing hub of Savar, on the outskirts of Dhaka, at least 50 workers were injured after the quake set off a stampede in a garment factory, according to the private Jamuna television.

The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people.

A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934.
</text>