<url>
https://in.news.yahoo.com/canada-deploys-assistance-team-nepal-081744708.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Canada deploys assistance team to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi, Apr. 28 (ANI): An assessment team and elements of the Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) is en route to Nepal from Canadian Forces Base Trenton, Ontario.

The Canadian Armed Forces is currently pre-positioning its personnel and resources in order to ensure a prompt reaction, in line with Government of Canada direction, to assist in the aftermath of an earthquake in Nepal.

On April 26, a CC-177 Globemaster III and its air crew began transporting the assessment team as well as relief supplies, medical personnel and fire fighters as part of the Light Urban Search and Rescue (LUSAR) team.

"In support of Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development and in cooperation with our other government department partners, we are moving swiftly to assist Nepal in this time of need. Canada has consistently demonstrated strong support for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations at home and throughout the world," National Defence Minister Jason Kenney said.

The assessment team will assist the Interdepartmental Strategic Support Team (ISST) in performing its needs assessment and the other personnel will provide initial support and medical assistance once they arrive in Nepal.

The Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) is one component of Canada's toolkit to respond to natural disasters abroad. It is a military organization ready to deploy quickly to conduct emergency relief operations.

"We extend our deepest condolences to the people of Nepal in the aftermath of this terrible earthquake. Our personnel are currently prepositioning to assess the needs of the affected population and the most efficient way to provide emergency relief. The Department of National Defence and the CAF stand ready to help save lives, maintain a stable environment, and assist in reconstruction where it is needed," said Chief of the Defence Staff, General Tom Lawson.

Earlier on Saturday, Canada Government announced it will support experienced humanitarian organizations with 5 million dollars to provide life-saving assistance to meet the urgent needs of people affected by the earthquake in Nepal.

Canada is also a contributor to international rapid response mechanisms that ensure partner organizations are able to act immediately at the onset of a crisis.

Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development Canada has created a dedicated web page for the Nepal crisis: Canada's response to the crisis in Nepal. (ANI)
</text>