<url>
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2015-04/28/content_20566499.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Chinadaily.com.cn
</headline>

<text>
A villager feeds sheep in front of make-shift homes in Nyanang county in the Tibet autonomous region. [Photo by Daqiong/Asianewsphoto]

The 8.1-magnitude quake on Saturday damaged many villagers' homes in Nyanang county in the Tibet autonomous region.

Nyanang township's Dargyeling village, with a population of 213, was one of those hit by the tremor in neighboring country Nepal.

"There were no casualties in our village, but most of the houses were damaged by the earthquake, and mine is the hardest hit," said Phurbu, the village leader of Dargyeling.

Both the front and back walls of Phurbu's house collapsed.

"The front and back partially collapsed and most facilities were damaged. We could restore some facilities with the help of the army," said the 47-year-old, who like other villagers, has moved his family to a tent.

When the earthquake struck, his family members were working in the fields.

"We were about to have lunch in the fields when it happened suddenly," Phurbu recalled.

"It was hard to see the snow-capped mountains and everything around us when it was shaking heavily."

His wife, Tashi Drolma, remembered the fear she felt when the quake struck. The shock made it difficult for her to sit or stand properly.

Nobody was inside their house when the disaster hit. Their son, Losang Trinley, was just about to return home from school. He had almost arrived at the door.

According to the villagers of Dargyeling, all 41 households, except three, were partially damaged or suffered big cracks from the quake.

After the disaster, rescue teams gave out disaster relief supplies to the villagers the next day. Each family was provided with a tent, 50 kg of tsamba roasted barley flour, instant noodles, tea leaves, medicine and carpets.

Phurbu said that with the help of the army, his family could take some food supplies such as barley and rice out of the ruins.

"My family now has enough food, we decided to help families whose food supplies were buried under the debris," he said.

"We are fine, thanks to the help from the government. We are now provided with food, tent and much-needed supplies," said Ngagwang Tsering, another villager in Dargyeling.

"As many aftershocks occurred in the past two days, I could not sleep for two nights. It's calmed down a bit," the 58-year-old said.

Ngagwang Tsering's wife, Phurbu Drolma, said that thanks to Buddha, the animals reared by her family are safe, although much furniture had been damaged.

"Now our biggest worry is the house. We hope the government will help restore it when things get better," the 60-year-old said.

Another difficulty facing the villagers is the shortage of animal feed as most supplies in the village were buried under the debris.

"Now I am not scared if we have any difficulties, because we can call the government to help us at any time," said Losang Trinley, 25, another male villager.

Losang Nyima, a student in the village, admitted that he was scared when the earthquake struck.

"Many windows in our classroom broke and our teacher told us to get to an open ground. The boys did not cry, but all the girls did," the 11-year-old said.

Classes in Dargyeling village were suspended because of the disaster and many students said they were not sure when lessons would resume.
</text>