<url>
http://directory.ucanews.com/news/jesuits-respond-to-devastating-nepal-quake/2187
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Jesuits respond to devastating Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
As death toll continues to raise in the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that rocked mountainous Nepal on Saturday, Jesuits in the region are gathering resources to help the victims.

The devastating quake in the nation in the Himalayas has killed over 4,000 people, injured over 6,000, besides destroying centuries-old temples and thousands of homes.

“We don’t know the real situation in a lot of areas because big buildings have collapsed,” said Jesuit Father Pius Perumana, head of Caritas Nepal, an international Catholic aid organization that responds to humanitarian crises such as natural disasters and conflict.

The 68 Jesuits, the predominant missioners in Nepal, are safe. The Jesuits there serve five schools, a college and social ministries that support disadvantaged young people in the capital Kathmandu, Pokhara, Deonia and Maheshpur.

Jesuit Father Augustine Thomas, principal of St. Xavier's College in Kathmandu, had remained in Kathmandu and reported on Sunday that there was no major damage to Jesuit buildings and no causalities reported among the religious houses.



The schools have opened their grounds for camping as people are staying outdoors since the aftershocks are so powerful.





Vast tent cities sprung up in Kathmandu for people displaced by the earthquake as strong aftershocks continued over the weekend. Caritas Nepal has been providing tarps to offer protection from the rain and cold temperatures.



“We are distributing the necessary things — tarpaulin, tents and food. People are in dire need because it is already the third day after the quake,” said Fr. Perumana.

Fr. Perumana reported that there is an urgent need for shelter: “What the people need immediately is shelter. Temperatures are dropping at night and there is also rain. Children are sleeping outside at night. It is really traumatic for them. We’re providing candles and matches so people have light at night as the electricity is out.”

Jesuit Father Boniface Tigga, regional superior of the Jesuits' Nepal Region, reported that the Nepal Jesuits have responded quickly to the terrible tragedy.

"St. Xavier’s College has reached out to two remote villages in Dhading district providing the villagers with tarpaulin sheets to sleep under and basic food material. There is another relief material distribution underway in Kavre district. Many roads are blocked and so it is hard to reach by road in many places. We hope to reach out to some more villages where relief work has not been done so far."

Fr. Tigga also expressed his concern about the water and food supply. "As stored food and water supplies diminish, suffering will increase," he wrote.



"In addition to providing medical care to those who were severely injured, medical teams are concerned about the possible outbreak of diseases, especially cholera, because of damage to the water supply system."

Sources: CNS, Jesuits in Britain, Caritas, CBS, Jesuit Conference of South Asia
</text>