<url>
http://www.smh.com.au//breaking-news-national/australia-extends-its-help-to-nepal-20150428-3uyir.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Australian couple in terror quake run
</headline>

<text>
National

Breaking News National

Australians stranded in Nepal will be flown out of the country by the air force as the government vows to continue the search for those still missing.

While some Australians have returned home on commercial flights, others are waiting for the Department of Foreign Affairs to release details of the military flights when arrangements at Kathmandu airport have been made.

Consular officials have contacted more than 1150 Australians who are safe in Nepal.

Melbourne woman Renu Fotedar is the first Australian identified as having died in the quake, in an avalanche at the Mount Everest base camp on Sunday caused by a 6.7 magnitude aftershock, while it's believed up to 200 remain unaccounted for.

Advertisement

"We will continue to search for any Australians who are unaccounted for," Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop said.

Ms Fotedar's family are in Kathmandu where they are receiving consular assistance.

After returning home on Tuesday, Perth man Geoff Roberts and his wife Sue told of a terrifying run from their violently swaying hotel in Kathmandu.

Mr and Mrs Roberts had just had their first shower in five days when the plumbing and shower screen began popping from the bathroom wall.

Having trekked through the Annapurna region, they were about to leave their Kathmandu hotel room for a coffee when the quake hit.

"The shower screen and the plumbing was all popping off the wall, mirrors breaking, things falling off the table - everything was moving so much," Ms Roberts told AAP.

"We just ran. Geoff didn't even have any shoes on."

They went to a safe area, where hotel staff helped arrange emergency passports and put them in touch with the Australian embassy.

The death toll from the quake rose to 4310 on Tuesday, with a further 8000 people known to have been injured.

Australia is adding $1 million to its immediate aid to Nepal, bringing its total contribution to $6 million.

As well, Australia has a search and rescue team available for deployment to Nepal where it could join 10 other teams from around the world.

South Australian climber Zachary Sheridan was found safe and well on Tuesday after his family had left for Nepal to search for him.

"I have just arrived in Lobuche. I was in Gokyo at the time of the earthquake, thankfully arriving ahead of schedule and on flat ground," he tweeted.

He said communication problems had made it impossible to get in touch earlier about his safety.

A number of previously reported missing trekkers have also turned up safe and well in Lukla in the past 24 hours.
</text>