<url>
http://www.cambridgetimes.ca/news-story/5591238-silence-overtakes-once-bustling-kathmandu-in-nepal-quake-aftermath/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Silence overtakes once-bustling Kathmandu in Nepal quake aftermath
</headline>

<text>
“What about the long term?” she asked.

More than 4,400 people have been killed by the earthquake so far, and the Nepalese prime minister told Reuters on Tuesday that the death toll could climb to as many as 10,000.

Some Canadians are still searching for family members who were in Nepal when the quake hit, while others have finally heard from loved ones after several anxious days.

Tamara McLeod called her mother in tears at 2 a.m. Tuesday, indicating that she was trapped in Briddhim village outside of Langtang, about 65 kilometres from Kathmandu.

This was the first time her family heard from her since the earthquake. Originally from Calgary, McLeod had been living in Nepal since late March and was teaching yoga.

“She kept repeating that she loved her,” her sister Michelle Dack said. “She was in tears and terrified.”

“We are just not sure if that means Tamara is trapped physically and can’t get out. There is so much that’s left up to the unknown right now because we don’t know if she has food or water.”

A Department of Foreign Affairs spokesperson said the department is working with local officials in Nepal and India to “locate and ascertain the well-being of Canadians on the ground.”

According to the ministry, 462 Canadians were registered with Ottawa as travelling in the region, though the number could even be higher since registration is voluntary.

Officials from the Department of Foreign Affairs and Department of National Defence confirmed that a C-17 military plane is scheduled to arrive in Kathmandu early Wednesday morning local time.

The plane will be transporting Canada’s humanitarian assessment team, and will also be able to evacuate up to 100 Canadian citizens and possibly citizens of other countries.

The flight will take passengers to New Delhi, India, where further consular assistance will be available to help citizens arrange a connecting flight back to Canada.

A second C-17 left CFB Trenton on Tuesday, and it is expected to arrive in Kathmandu Thursday morning, the officials said. It can also be used for further evacuations as needed.

About 30 of Nepal’s 75 districts have been affected by the quake, and thousands of people require medical care for emergency needs and pre-conditions, the World Health Organization said in a statement.

“The longer people go without receiving care, particularly those in remote areas where access may be limited, the greater risk they have of losing their lives,” Paul Garwood, a WHO spokesperson, told the Star.

WHO has recorded injuries that range from broken bones, head trauma, and spinal injuries, among others. “There’s a real life-saving emergency window right now in terms of reaching people who have been injured in this disaster, and to get them patient care,” Garwood said.

In a remote Nepalese village, 250 people are feared missing after the quake triggered a mudslide and an avalanche.

The humanitarian response is “almost a race against the clock,” said Alain Lapierre, head of CARE Canada’s emergency response team in Nepal, stressing that getting supplies to the country’s rural areas is crucial.

“At some places the roads are cut, and a lot of villages are in remote areas where there are no roads. They are the most affected because a lot of those villages are completely collapsed, in terms of housing and infrastructure,” he told the Star by phone from Kathmandu.

Providing people with food, water and safe shelter is the biggest challenge, and Lapierre called for a sustained, international effort to meet peoples’ needs.

“The population is calm. There is no panic, but we can feel the despair, we can feel the trauma among people,” Lapierre added. “There isn’t a single person that hasn’t been affected or that hasn’t lost either a home or a loved one.”

- With files from Katherine DeClerq and Robin Levinson-King

Toronto Star
</text>