<url>
http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/ottawa-quake-survivor-says-more-relief-assistance-needed-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Gatineau man checks in with family to say he's safe in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A midnight phone call woke up the Lauzier family of Gatineau on Wednesday, but they didn’t mind at all: It brought the good news that their son Érik is alive and well in Nepal.

“In the middle of the night my wife received a message,” said Robert Lauzier, Érik’s father.

Érik posted a single sentence on his brother’s Facebook page to say he had not been harmed by the earthquake. He has been travelling the world since last July.

There were no other details so far, Robert said, but the “he said he’s going to call us today, probably.”

The message brought “great relief,” he said. Until that message, “we were stressed, tense, worried all the time. We were starting to get a little impatient.”

“He’s still in Nepal but his plan is to go on to India,” Robert said. The family expects him to keep travelling “until the money runs out.”

Meanwhile, an Ottawa woman found safe, but injured, after the devastating earthquake in Nepal says not enough is being done to help the victims of the disaster.

“Where are the helicopters? Where are the supplies? Please spread the word — The survivors of Langtang area are suffering,” Faye Kennedy, 32, wrote in a Facebook post Tuesday. The post has so far been shared almost 3,000 times.

Kennedy was hiking in Nepal’s popular Langtang National Park, about 130 kilometres north of the capital Kathmandu, when the devastating quake struck on Saturday. The official toll so far is more than 4,600 people dead, with another 9,000 injured. Both of those figures are expected to rise.

She was with two friends, but because she was injured Kennedy was airlifted to Kathmandu for treatment ahead of her companions. The injuries were minor, according to a release from her brother-in-law Justin Piché.

Her friends, Erland Nylend of Norway and Nisha Nudha of Nepal, were still waiting above Langtang village, “which has been absolutely flattened by the avalanche.”

And Kennedy said there are hundreds of foreign and local casualties with them.

“There have been 6 helicopter evacuations of 6 people at a time. The helicopters have brought nothing to the survivors waiting to be evacuated — firewood and food is running out, there is no roof and hypothermia will set in soon if supplies are not brought in. They are in a desperate situation,” she wrote in her post.

A military aircraft carrying a Disaster Assistance Response Team and other personnel was expected to arrive in Nepal on Wednesday, said Defence Minister Jason Kenney. But it would depend on the condition of the airport.

In Ottawa, Zaphod Beeblebrox will host a benefit concert on May 8 for victims of the quake. “All proceeds from this benefit will go to Doctors Without Borders/ Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) and Canadian Red Cross,” the popular nightclub’s Facebook post says.

And another Ottawa man hiking in Nepal, Sam Caldbick, is safe for now, according to a tweet from his friend Cody Walter of Sudbury, Ont.

There is a site that has been established to help track people reported missing in the quake.

Ottawa resident Sarah Brandt was trying to locate her brother, Sai Jaya Raj Anthony, 37, a Malaysian national. Anthony was last heard from on Facebook, where he posted pictures of himself with his trekking permit for Langtang.

“We don’t know where he was at the time of the earthquake and are in total information blackout,” she wrote in a press release.

Brandt says she hasn’t been able to reach Malaysian authorities.

She said that Anthony wasn’t an experienced hiker and that this was his first time undertaking such a long route.

Here is Faye Kennedy’s post:

https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=10152744974171680&set=a.10151239083661680.448872.503746679&type=1
</text>