<url>
http://en.people.cn/n/2015/0428/c98649-8884757.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
China acts in Nepal earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
The whole world was shocked by the 8.1 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a message of condolences to Nepalese President Ram Baran Yadav on April 25. In his message, he expressed his confidence in the ability of the Nepalese government under the leadership of Yadav to combat the disaster, and confirmed China's willingness to provide all necessary assistance. China has been fully engaged in earthquake relief work in the Tibetan regions affected by the earthquake. At the same time, transport facilities have been deployed to evacuate Chinese tourists in Nepal.

On April 20, China commemorated the two-year anniversary of the Lushan earthquake, and this May we will commemorate the seven-year anniversary of the Wenchuan earthquake. We experienced the same pain as the Nepali people, so we have taken effective action to help them. In Tibet, national highway 318 has been reopened after quick repairs, so that relief can be sent to disaster areas. Li Liang, a Chinese restaurant owner in Katmandu, is offering free meals to local people. The Chinese people are already acting to help the victims of the earthquake. Many people have organized fund-raising activities, and some have even come to the disaster-stricken area spontaneously.

At state level, China has exerted greater power. The Chinese government has decided to offer Nepal 20 million yuan in emergency relief, including tents, carpets, generators, and other badly needed materials. On the morning of April 26, a Chinese rescue team of 62 people arrived in Katmandu. Chinese project teams building a hydropower station, communication facilities and other infrastructure in Nepal have also joined in the disaster relief work. As the Nepalese Ambassador to China said, China is a friend in adversity.

Over the years, the world has seen more and more such actions from China. One month ago, China evacuated 613 of its citizens from conflict-hit Yemen as well as 279 foreign citizens from 15 other countries. In the disaster relief work in Haiti, Japan, New Zealand and other countries, the Chinese international search and rescue team played an important role. Meanwhile, many Chinese non-governmental organizations have also participated in international public service activities.

It takes actions to change the world. Even with natural disasters like earthquakes, as long as people of all nations can join hands, we can help to alleviate the suffering. As a Chinese saying goes, "When disaster strikes, help will come from all sides".

The article is edited and translated from《从尼泊尔强震看“中国行动”》, source: People's Daily, author:Jin Cang.
</text>