<url>
http://www.statesmanjournal.com/story/news/local/causes/2015/04/27/nepal-earthquakes-effects-felt-mid-valley/26491527/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake's effects felt in Mid-Valley
</headline>

<text>
A volunteer from North Willamette Valley Habitat for Humanity sits on top of a partially constructed house in Nepal in 2012. A group of volunteers from the local affiliate participated in the international build. (Photo: Special to the Statesman Journal)

Reverberations of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday are being felt throughout the world. More than 4,000 people have been confirmed dead as a result of the quake and the number continues to rise. Their family and friends abroad are seeking out information on their loved ones, coming to terms with the devastation and looking for ways to help.

Here are three ways the tragedy in Nepal connects to life in the Mid-Valley.

North Willamette Valley Habitat for Humanity

Over the past three years, two groups of Mid-Valley residents built homes in Nepal with Habitat for Humanity International.

Each local Habitat affiliate is required to tithe to the international arm of the organization, said Katy Zilverberg, executive director of North Willamette Valley Habitat for Humanity. For several years, North Willamette Valley Habitat has designated funds to Asia, Zilverberg said.

In 2012, Zilverberg and four local volunteers participated in the Everest Build, where 500 volunteers built about 40 homes in a week. They constructed a home in Dhulikhel, which is about 20 miles east of Kathmandu, Nepal's capital.

When she learned about the quake, Zilverberg immediately worried about Dinesh Joshi, a hotel worker the group befriended. After a few days, Joshi was able to alert his Facebook friends that he was OK, she said.

Habitat for Humanity International is accepting donations as it assesses the situation in Nepal. Zilverberg said she had not heard yet if the Everest Build houses were able to withstand the quake.

Zilverberg said the earthquake will definitely impact where the local affiliate sends its tithe this year.

"They're going to need a lot of resources to rebuild," she said.

Corban University

Sixteen Nepalese students earning a Corban University degree through an Indonesian partner campus are anxiously awaiting news from home.

Information is still trickling in, but so far most immediate family members are reported alive, said Janine Allen, dean of global initiatives. One student lost an aunt, and several homes were destroyed, Allen said.

The students are earning dual degrees as they study education at Universitas Pelita Harapan in Karawaci, Indonesia. Corban faculty members occasionally teach classes at the Indonesian school, and administrative leaders travel there several times a year, Allen said.

A team is leaving the Indonesian campus Tuesday and headed to Nepal to see how they can help their students' families, Allen said. Locally, school leaders are trying to assess the best way to rally donors to support their international students, she said.

One Fair World

Nepalese-made items are some of the most prevalent items at One Fair World, a nonprofit store that specializes in Fair Trade-certified products.

Spokane-based Ganesh Himal Trading connects artisans in Nepal with with stores in North America. The company is one of One Fair World's top five vendors, said Kim Baldwin, manager of the store in downtown Salem.

Five years ago, the trading company established a medical clinic in the village of Dhadagaun, Baseri, near the epicenter of the earthquake. According to the company, the main building was destroyed but leaders believe a section containing medical supplies and some shelter remains intact.

One Fair World board member Ellen Chambers and her husband Steve visited Nepal after becoming acquainted with the country through the store.

Nepal is one of the world's poorest and least developed countries, according to the World Fact Book. Steve Chambers said he was impressed by the people's interest in trying to make a better lives for themselves.

"The earthquake struck a crushing blow to that," he said.

khessel@statesmanjournal.com, 503-399-6743 or follow on Twitter @KaellenHessel

Read or Share this story: http://stjr.nl/1GzUyZo
</text>