<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/04/26/top-story/hundreds-killed-in-multiple-jolts/404539.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Hundreds killed in multiple jolts
</headline>

<text>
Apr 26, 2015-

A massive earthquake, with its epicentre in Barpak VDC of Gorkha district, struck the country on Saturday noon, killing at least 1,382 people and causing widespread devastation. Officials said the death toll could be much higher and destruction more severe.

The government has declared emergency in 29 districts including Kathmandu Valley that witnessed the worst devastation with at least 271 deaths reported as of the evening. The Home Ministry said as many as 38 districts were severely hit by the earthquake. Hundreds of people are feared to be buried under rubble. Nepal, especially Kathmandu Valley, is located in a high-risk seismic zone, and due to poor preparedness and lack of earthquake-resistant buildings, thousands of people are at high risk.

Information and Communications Minister Minendra Rijal said the government was pulling every stop to rescue and rehabilitate the citizens.

“This is a time of crisis and the government urges everyone to look after others, especially children, elderly and the sick,” Rijal said, adding that the government has requested the international community for assistance.

A series of strong aftershocks continued to jolt the country until the night, prompting people to leave their houses in search of open spaces. Private and commercial buildings, cultural and historical sites, including many Unesco World Heritage sites located inside and outsidethe Valley were destroyed.

Officials said the earthquake was one of the deadliest in the history and they were yet to ascertain the extent of damage and casualties. The last mega earthquake was recorded back in 1934, measuring 8.5 in magnitude with epicenter in Uttar Pradesh, India; more than 8,000people had died in the disaster.

According to UttamPrasad Gautam, after the main shock of 7.8in magnitude that was felt for a minute, followed by a series of aftershocks, some of strong intensities were felt until Saturday evening. “Normally, the aftershocks of decreasing intensities is felt for 72-hours from the first main shock. As for Saturday evening, the center recorded over 20 aftershocks of moderate intensity measuring above 5 in magnitude, almost shaking off the ground strongly. Likewise, the United States Geological Survey recorded 12 aftershocks, with the highest intensity of 6.7 in magnitude by Saturday afternoon. “The threat level is still high since the series of aftershocks may have damaged and weakened the buildings. Even a slight tremor could cause buildings to collapse,” said Gautam, advising people to remain in safer sites. The government has assigned 13 emergency rescue and rehabilitation centers inside the Valley.

The tremor and its aftershocks were felt throughout the country, along the Himalayas, including in the Everest, where dozens of trekkers are considered buried under snow.

“If we analyse the interventions made so far to create a earthquake-safe country and the threat level experienced on Saturday, we can say that most of the efforts failed to work towards ensuring the safety of the people. The efforts so far was mainly focused on raising awareness but not on enforcing building safety code to build earthquake-resistant buildings and structures,” said Ranjan Kumar Dahal, a geologist, associated with the Tribhuvan University.

The government has assigned 83 open spaces inside Kathmandu Valley as rescue and rehabilitation sites.

“Establishment and proper management of open spaces needs to be strengthened,” Dahal said. “We cannot predict earthquakes, so it is crucial that the people are prepared.”

The major earthquakes in Nepal

Year Magnitude Casualties

1932 8.5 8519

2015 7.9 1382 ( until Saturday night)

1988 6.7 750

2013 6.8 7

Published: 26-04-2015 04:05
</text>