<url>
http://focusnews.com/world/earthquake-leaves-nepals-legacy-in-ruins/23460/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
In Depth: Nepal Earthquake Leaves World Heritage Sites In Rubble
</headline>

<text>
T 1845 - O ! God .. this is Nepal earthquake ..!!! I shot a song here for 'Mahaan' with Zeenat Aman .. pray all well pic.twitter.com/Q8ZcMaB57C — Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) April 25, 2015

Kathmandu temples destroyed by earthquake. pic.twitter.com/CwvAZVsiER — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Dharahara tower is busy destination for families on weekends. Today, it collapsed trapping many. Rescue ops ongoing. pic.twitter.com/wtuxDLkvWz — Kashish Das Shrestha (@kashishds) April 25, 2015

Saddest was to stand on the mound of what use to be the Dharara landmark tower, and see the citizens, police and army pull the bodies out. — Kanak Mani Dixit (@KanakManiDixit) April 25, 2015

Huge earthquake in Kathmandu. I'm terrified. — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Running for my life with thousands of other not something I want to do again. pic.twitter.com/sLmATKypCR — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Devastation in patan. Kathmandu earthquake. pic.twitter.com/oVTqsU6wQQ — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Kathmandu patan district. Old royal square devastated. pic.twitter.com/Fq0CSRgeGM — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

This scene is incredible. Such desperation. I saw hundreds sitting, relaxing here then saw these temples collapse. pic.twitter.com/uj55uWndfr — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Kathmandu quake aftermath. Clearing rubble to search for survivors. pic.twitter.com/oasYaNweiP — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

I took these photos an hour apart. Was wandering when quake demolished temples before my eyes. Heartbreaking. pic.twitter.com/RYtIZI4725 — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Searching through rubble at Patan Durbar Square after #kathmanduearthquake pic.twitter.com/ikXmqqenzx — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

Still can't believe what I witnessed in #NepalQuake today. History crumbling, a nation in despair. pic.twitter.com/sFcOj2vzVi — Siobhan Heanue (@siobhanheanue) April 25, 2015

The Kalmochan Temple built in Mughal style by Jang Bahadur at Thapathali down, only the Garuda stands guard. pic.twitter.com/KWfv4a7PHB — Kanak Mani Dixit (@KanakManiDixit) April 25, 2015

I counted at least 7 major temples in Patan razed, including this one recently restored. pic.twitter.com/2ftOKf2gxk — Kunda Dixit (@kundadixit) April 25, 2015

Historic #earthquake in #Nepal; much lost, many to mourn, as much to rebuild.Hopefully worst is over.Stay alert, safe pic.twitter.com/xLwn6JZ70a — Kashish Das Shrestha (@kashishds) April 25, 2015

Garuda and King Bhupatindra Malla figures knocked off pedestal now inside Patan Museum. #Nepalquake pic.twitter.com/wTENe9QT4w — Kunda Dixit (@kundadixit) April 25, 2015

BASANTAPUR DURBAR SQUARE IS GONE!!! pic.twitter.com/HnauT0fDia — Kashish Das Shrestha (@kashishds) April 25, 2015

''Oh ! God.. this is Nepal earthquake ..!!! I shot a song here for 'Mahaan' with Zeenat Aman .. pray all well,'' tweeted Amitabh Bachan instantly after the earthquake that swept the entire country of Nepal including the Northern parts of India and the adjacent countries of Bangladesh and Malaysia.The nine-storey Dharahara Tower and the royal Durbar Square, the major tourist attractions in Kathmandu once thronged by tourists from across the globe are the heaps of rubble now. More than 700 have already died and reports of more and more death are coming. Providing a panoramic view of Kathmandu valley, a place which once was a must visit place for every traveller to Nepal, has turned into a heap of rubble. The Dharahara Tower in Kathmandu was the second such tower built by Bhimsen Thapa. The first tower was built eight years earlier in 1824 and was 11 stories high, two stories taller than the Dharahara. Dharahara is said to be built for Queen Lalit Tripura Sundari, who was the niece of Bhimsen Thapa. During the earthquake of 1834, both the towers survived, but the first Bhimsen's tower suffered severe damage. On the fateful day 15 January 1934 the first tower was destroyed completely while the second one suffered the major damages. Restoration of this tower were carried out under the rule of the then Prime Minister of Nepal, Juddha Shumsher who got it renovated to its previous form in 1936. While the original Bhimsen Tower was wiped off, Queen Lalit Tripura Sundari's tower got its name, 'Bhimsen Stambha' or 'Bhimsen Tower'. The Dharahara Tower was actually built as a watch tower for military. It turned into one of the key landmarks in Kathmandu later. Possessing a spiral staircase which lead to the circular balcony on the eight floor used to provide mesmerising view of the Kathmandu Valley.Another structure, Kathmandu Durbar Square, the plaza in front of the old royal palace of the former Kathmandu Kingdom. It was one of three Durbar (royal palace) Squares in the Kathmandu Valley in Nepal, all of which were part of, till Saturday Morning, the UNESCO World Heritage Site. The beautiful setting of an open-air plaza consisting of temples, idols and fountains, a statue of Lord Hanuman standing in the square, the monkey devotee of Lord Ram, at the entrance of the palace, buildings in the Durbar Square all reduced to rubble when they collapsed on the fateful day of 25 April 2015, in one of the worst earthquakes that have hit this mountainous region. Once filled with tourists and people crazy for mountains, coming to this place from across the globe, the bustling city of Kathmandu is a city filled with sorrow. Not only has it's landscape changed but many lives also changed, forever.The Kathmandu Valley includes seven groups of monuments that showcase a range of religious and artistic traditions that have made the area world famous. UNESCO says the most well-known are tiered temples made of fired brick and timber. "The roofs are covered with small overlapping terracotta tiles, with gilded brass ornamentation. The windows, doorways and roof struts have rich decorative carvings. The stupas have simple but powerful forms with massive, whitewashed hemispheres supporting gilded cubes with the all-seeing eternal Buddha eyes," says UNESCO in a description of the heritage structures in Kathmandu valley, mostly linked to the Hindu religion. Right in the aftermath of the earthquake on Saturday, Australian journalist Siobhan Heanue's tweets reflected the fear, chaos and the enormity of the tragedy that struck the Himalayan nation.Journalists from Nepal also took to twitter to show their despair in losing these heritage of their country to the devastating earthquake.
</text>