<url>
http://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/India/20150428/2581297.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Killer Quake: Death Toll cross 10,000: PM Koirala; 5057dead so far;8000 injured; Survivors chances dim
</headline>

<text>
Amid growing fears that the deathtoll in Saturday's monster earthquake may touch 10,000 mark, Rescueteams , battling all odds,ramped up efforts to ensure must awaitedsuccor in the worst affected swathes as the death toll soared past5057 and hopes for survivors under mounds of debris fizzling. Around Jagged stump of Dharahara minrate,flattened monuments andanicient temples and apartments, wailing relatives and friends standwith blank looks and long faces hoping against hopes to find trappedpeople alive even after fourth day of the tragedy. Latest reports fear more deaths at the mount everest where atleast25 mountaineers died in avalanche triggered by the tremblor whichuprooted camps on the peak. At least 150 mountaineers are stillstranded there while many of the injured were flown down in army andairforce copters. A group of 250 trekkers are still missing. Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala's worst fear is that the deathtoll may cross 10,000 mark once rescuers could reach interior areasand places near the epicenter in Lamjung and Kodari. Miseries unleashed by the monster earthquake in Nepal four days agostart unfolding in its worst form today with nostrils assailing stenchof corpses trapped under flattened structures in more than 30districts, threat of outbreak of epidemic,scarcity of drinking water,food and medicines, fading hopes for survivors. In last bid attempt,crying relatives and relief teams were desperatelyremoving mounds of debris with bare hands,shovels and earth movers. In India , 75 lives were lost with Bihar being the worst hit with 58deaths followed by UP 12 , West Bengal three and Rajasthan one andpeople are still scared to follow up after shocks of variable magnitude. Today, atleast 36 people died and 100 others injured when high speedcyclonic storm hit Uttar Pradesh. A relief camp,pitched for the quakevictims,in the Gorakhpur University campus was blown away in thestorm. Authorities started the camp,meant for those returning from the quakebattered Nepal, started operated from another place. At least 36 buseswith quake victims have left for India from Kathmandu and other areasfrom via road routes. High speed wind storm has battered vast tracts of Bihar today andpeople said the weather was clear in the morning but as the dayadvanced, dust laden high speed winds lashed the state with sharpshowers. Panic swept through Patna and various districts of the state as thickdark clouds hovered atop and high speed winds of 60-70 kms sweptthrough. Woes compounded further when heavy rains pounded the state. This morning ,Fresh aftershocks jolted the quake-ravaged Nepal this morning. A moderate intensity quake, measuring 5.1 on the Richter scale, alsostruck Tajikistan this morning . The tremblor, which shook the regionat 1033 hrs, was epicentered at 37.3 degrees North Latitude and 72.1degrees East Longitude, the India Meteorological Department said in astatement. Its focal depth was 143 km, the statement added. Weathermen predict Severe thunderstorms with squall would occur atisolated places over Bihar during next 24 hours.Thunderstorms withsquall or hail would occur at isolated places over West Bengal,Sikkim, East Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Thunderstorm with dust storms would occur at isolated places overHaryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan and Northwest MadhyaPradesh during the period.MORE UNI NB CH 1906 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0294-100721.Xml
</text>