<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/Chennai-docs-pitch-in-to-join-relief-work-in-Nepal/articleshow/47090267.cms
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Chennai docs pitch in to join relief work in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
CHENNAI: From mobilising medical supplies to offering their service, doctors and hospitals in Chennai and other parts of the state are pitching in with relief operations for quake-hit Nepal.On Monday, the Tamil Nadu chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) sent out emails and text messages to its members seeking volunteers to help with the relief operations in Nepal. Around 40 doctors have signed up so far."Every time there has been a natural calamity, doctors here have been quick to offer support," said IMA Tamil Nadu general secretary Dr C N Raja. "We have sent out on an appeal to our members to give financial aid and volunteer in relief operations there. The list of doctors will be sent to IMA, Delhi, which will coordinate with the National Disaster Management Authority," he added.Dr Binu Lal Singh, a doctor from Kanyakumari, has signed up for the operations. "The scenes from the spot were heart wrenching. They clearly need more skilled hands there. I didn't think twice when I got the message from IMA. I immediately gave my name," said Dr Singh, who has been practising for 17 years.The IMA has already sent four medical teams of doctors, pharmacists and aid workers from Delhi. "We are in the process of forming more teams. We are also in constant touch with the Nepal medical association," said Dr J A Jayalal, a senior IMA member, adding that essential drugs and surgical equipment have also been sent out. The doctors will work with the National Disaster Response Force teams. "So far, the report the doctors have given us is appalling. Several are yet to be rescued. The rain has hampered relief operations and raised the risk of infections," said Jayalal.In Chennai, we are forming a team of general physicians and emergency workers. How we work is that we set up a base camp in Uttarakhand and coordinated with the Army. We will leave to Nepal in a week. First team from the SEWA project will comprise doctors from Delhi and then the regional teams will follow" said Harish Manian, facility director of Fortis Malar. While hospitals and doctors are gearing to pitch in, a senior official in the state government who is familiar with handling disasters said that volunteers in their zeal can be a liability instead of an asset. "We need to support the country and the people, not overwhelm them. The problem is we forget to be practical in our enthusiasm. As we go through the initial phase of a disaster, it is always better to wait for the rapid needs and damage assessment rather than rushing to the spot," said the official.The scenes from the spot were heart wrenching. They clearly need more skilled hands there. I didn't think twice when I got the message from IMA. I immediately gave my name Dr Binu Lal Singh
</text>