<url>
http://www.theborneopost.com/2015/04/30/sarawakians-on-expedition-return-safely-from-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Sarawakians on expedition return safely from Nepal
</headline>

<text>
KUCHING: Nine Sarawakians who went on an expedition to Nepal last week arrived home safely yesterday.

All of them boarded a commercial flight from Kuala Lumpur after travelling from Kolkata, India to the capital.

Eight of them are members of a recreational club based in Kuching called the Kuching Hash Harriers House (KHHH) while one of them is a member of another recreational club based in Kuching similar in its activity called the Kuching City Hash (KCH).

Nepal, a South Asian country located in the Himalayas, was rocked by a violent 7.8 magnitude earthquake last Sunday (Apr 25) while the Sarawakians were in the midst of enjoying the scenery and jungle trekking at the Langtang National Park, located just 32 km north of the Kathmandu valley.

Michael Tan who led the expedition shared his stories with reporters yesterday as he described the incident as one he would never forget for the rest of his life.

“We were trekking the park when we suddenly heard a loud rumble. I quickly shouted to the rest of the team to look up constantly while looking for a place to hide. Avalanches and rocks were rolling from the mountains and we had no choice but to act fast,” he added.

Chai Ngim Phim who was one of the team members said he really lost hope during the earthquake as he and the rest of the team thought that it was the last moment of their lives.

To their luck, the team managed to find a huge rock to hide and shield themselves as they waited for everything to settle down.

They subsequently travelled to the nearest army camp near the national park to seek help as most of them had lost their belongings while they were running and scrambling for shelter during the earthquake.

“Our bag packs were slowing us down very significantly thus we had no choice but to abandon them on the spot. Some of us lost everything including important documents,” said Tan.

After reaching the army camp, they together with a few locals waited for the army helicopter to rescue them.

The helicopter arrived 24 hours later to ferry them to Nepal capital, Kathmandu.

All but one of the team members, however, got on the helicopter as John Teo was left alone at the army camp due to the fact that he wasn’t aggressive enough to fight for his place in the rescue helicopter.

“I managed to be reunited with my team members two days later. When I arrived in Kathmandu, the area was also in a big mess and never in my mind that I will experience a natural disaster first hand like this,” he commented.

Jong Kian Chin who was also one of the team members commented that “it will take years” for him to ever visit Nepal again or worse still, never to go there again due to the trauma he experienced.

Approximately 106 Malaysians (according to them) travelled from Kathmandu to Kolkata, India on Tuesday (Apr 28) where they would then proceed to Kuala Lumpur on an army plane hours later, arriving in the nation’s capital at approximately 12.30am yesterday.

Tan, who also spoke on behalf of the team, commented that all of them expressed their sympathy for the earthquake victims in Nepal and it saddened them so much to see such a beautiful country being affected by catastrophe.

Hence, they hope that the whole country remain strong as they believe only the people who are there during the disaster understand what the people there are currently going through.

Meanwhile, when contacted by The Borneo Post yesterday, Sarawak deputy Immigration director Hamfatullah Syawal Hamdan commented that his department could not confirm how many Sarawakians were at Nepal (when the earthquake occurred) and how many Sarawakians had travelled back to the country from there as no information had been released yet by Wisma Putra.

Related News: Sarawakians arrive safe and sound from quake-hit Nepal
</text>