<url>
http://www.njherald.com/story/28913625/2015/04/27/stillwater-resident-was-in-nepal-when-earthquake-struck
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Stillwater resident was in Nepal when earthquake struck.
</headline>

<text>
Posted: Apr. 27, 2015 11:16 pm Updated: Apr. 30, 2015 11:16 pm

By GREG WATRY

gwatry@njherald.com

Ian Blanchard, of Stillwater, was picking chili peppers in the Nepal village of Chisapani, where the school he cofounded is located, when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the region on Saturday.

“It shook for a really long time ... about five minutes,” the 29-year-old recalled. “The kids were startled. People didn't know what to do.”

He watched a nearby stone building shake. By chance a week prior, he taught his classes about earthquakes, what they are and why they happen.

While that building withstood the tremors, the girls' boardinghouse at the school was irreparably damaged. “When you have cracks in the windows and doors, it's no longer suitable to live in,” he said.

Of the 100 students that attend that branch of the Maya Universe Academy, about 20 are boarded at the school.

Media outlets have reported that roughly 4,000 people lost their lives in the earthquake this past weekend. Blanchard said that no one was injured in the immediate area surrounding him. “We were all safe and outdoors,” he said.

But “most people are worried about their houses being destroyed,” he said.

Since 2011, Blanchard has traveled to Nepal three times. He's been in the

country since December 2014 for this trip. Conversant in Nepali, he cofounded the Maya Universe Academy, which has three branches in the country, with his friend Manjil Rana, a native of the country, whom he met at the Maine college they were both attending. Initially, the idea started out as a school assignment for Rana, but the two brought the idea to fruition. Currently, the three schools have more than 250 students.

The Maya Universe Academy was founded with the idea to provide education free of cost. “As far as we know, we're the only boarding school that exchanges education directly for work as opposed to exchanging it for money,” he said. The children's parents are required to work two times per month at the school in various capacities.

The population generally has little access to electricity, toilets and education.

He estimated that it would take about $25,000 to repair the girls' housing, and between $4,000 and $7,000 to fix the eight homes for teachers that were damaged in the earthquake.

Blanchard described his surroundings as “mountainous” by United States standards but “hilly” by Nepal's standards. “We're in the jungle,” he noted.

In the wake of the earthquake, one of the major safety concerns, he said, especially with people sleeping outside, is being attacked by leopards.

While speaking with the New Jersey Herald on the phone Monday night, Blanchard said he felt the tin roof shake, another one of the hundreds of aftershocks the region has felt in the past couple of days.

Blanchard noted that it wasn't until the 6.7 earthquake on Sunday that damage in the area went from a “devastating situation to a desperate situation.” He recalled seeing a farmer lose all his vegetables when a stone wall toppled onto his field.

The majority of people in the country, he said, live in rural villages and are concerned that money to assist in the aftermath of the earthquake will stay in the cities.

Blanchard is scheduled to leave the country and return to the United States on May 14, but with the recent disaster he is unsure what his travel plans are. His visa expires on May 20.

“I have no idea what's going to happen,” said Wendie Blanchard, Ian Blanchard's mother. “His last words were ‘Don't worry, mom. I'll be home soon.'”

Aliza Kawecki, Ian Blanchard's girlfriend, last visited her boyfriend in Nepal for six weeks and returned at the beginning of March. “It was wonderful,” she said of her experience in the country. “Ian has a close relationship with a lot of people in the community.”

Ian Blanchard said access to clean water is not a concern for where he is, but what is a concern is labor.

“We're always looking for more volunteers at the school,” he said. Between the three schools, he said there are usually around 15 volunteers from outside the country and a slew of Nepali

volunteers.

Long-term volunteers that stay for around five months are provided with free food and accommodation. Short-term volunteers are required to donate.

“It's a beautiful country, a generous population,” he said. “People here are very helpful.”

To find out how you can help, go to www.mayauniverseacademy.org or visit on Facebook at www.facebook.com/maya.universe.academy.nepal

Greg Watry also can be contacted on Twitter: @GregWatryNJH or by phone: 973-383-1184
</text>