<url>
http://www.sfgate.com/world/article/Choppers-ferry-injured-in-Nepal-new-mudslide-6229815.php
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Choppers ferry injured in Nepal; new mudslide hits village
</headline>

<text>
Choppers ferry injured in Nepal; new mudslide hits village





Photo: Casey Allred, Associated Press Image 1 of / 2 Caption Close Image 1 of 2 In this image made from drone video taken on Monday, April 27, 2015, an aerial view of damage caused by Saturday's earthquake in Patan Durbar Square, Kathmandu, Nepal. Helicopters crisscrossed the mountains above a remote district Tuesday, April 28, 2015 near the epicenter of the weekend earthquake in Nepal that killed more than 4,600 people, ferrying the injured and delivering emergency supplies. Officials said 250 villagers were feared missing in a new mudslide. less In this image made from drone video taken on Monday, April 27, 2015, an aerial view of damage caused by Saturday's earthquake in Patan Durbar Square, Kathmandu, Nepal. Helicopters crisscrossed the mountains ... more Photo: Casey Allred, Associated Press Image 2 of 2 Sita Karki, suffering two broken legs, arrives by helicopter from the heavily-damaged Ranachour village at a landing zone in the town of Gorkha. Sita Karki, suffering two broken legs, arrives by helicopter from the heavily-damaged Ranachour village at a landing zone in the town of Gorkha. Photo: Wally Santana, Associated Press Choppers ferry injured in Nepal; new mudslide hits village 1 / 2 Back to Gallery

GORKHA, Nepal — Helicopters crisscrossed the mountains above a remote district Tuesday near the epicenter of the weekend earthquake in Nepal that killed more than 4,600 people, ferrying the injured and delivering emergency supplies. Officials said 250 villagers were feared missing in a new mudslide.

Two helicopters brought in eight women from Ranachour village, two of them clutching babies and a third heavily pregnant.

“There are many more injured people in my village,” said Sangita Shrestha, who was pregnant and visibly downcast as she got off the helicopter. She was quickly surrounded by Nepalese soldiers and policemen and ushered into a waiting van to be taken to a hospital.

The little town of Gorkha, the district’s administrative and trading center, is being used as a staging post to get rescuers and supplies to those remote communities after Saturday’s magnitude-7.8 earthquake.

Not far from the quake’s epicenter, 250 people were feared missing after a mudslide and avalanche on Tuesday, district official Gautam Rimal said.

Heavy snow had been falling near the village, Ghodatabela, and the ground may have been loosened by the quake. Rimal said officials received initial reports of the disaster by phone but then lost contact.

The village, about a 12-hour walk from the nearest town, is along a popular trekking route, but it was not clear if the missing included trekkers.

Across central Nepal, including the capital of Kathmandu, hundreds of thousands of people were still living in the open without clean water or sanitation more than three days after the quake. It rained heavily in the city Tuesday, forcing people to find shelter wherever they could.

On Tuesday night, French rescuers freed a man from the ruins of a three-story Kathmandu hotel, one of a cluster near the main bus station. The man, identified as Rishi Khanal, was conscious and taken to a hospital, but no other information about him was released.

In Gorkha, some women who came off the helicopters on Tuesday were grimacing and crying in pain and unable to walk or speak, in agony three days after being injured in the quake.

Sita Karki winced when soldiers lifted her. Her broken and swollen legs had been tied together with crude wisps of hay twisted into a makeshift splint.

“When the earthquake hit, a wall fell on me and knocked me down,” she said. “My legs are broken.”

“In some villages, about 90 percent of the houses have collapsed. They’re just flattened,” said Rebecca McAteer, an American physician who rushed to the quake zone from the distant Nepal hospital where she works.

The country’s confirmed death toll rose to 4,680. Another 61 were killed in neighboring India, and China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported 25 dead in Tibet. At least 18 of the dead were killed at Mount Everest.

Some 8,063 people have been injured. Tens of thousands are believed to be homeless.
</text>