<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68101051/wellington-man-raises-earthquake-relief-funds-for-small-nepal-village
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Wellington man raises earthquake relief funds for small Nepal village
</headline>

<text>
Wellington man raises earthquake relief funds for small Nepal village

Reuben Harcourt/Facebook Men shelter in a makeshift ten in Badikhel,Godawari district, Nepal

A Wellington man helping out in a Nepali orphanage when the quake struck is asking Kiwis to donate to a bank account set up to help those directly affected.

Reuben Harcourt, from Paekakariki, arrived in Nepal with the Global Volunteer Network this month to spend six weeks working in a small village in the Kathmandu Valley.

One of the places he was helping at was the children's home in Badikhel, in the Godawari district, which was severely damaged in the earthquake and subsequent aftershocks.

Reuben Harcourt/Facebook Villagers shelter in tents in Badikhel, Godawari district, Nepal

However, despite the devastation in their village, the Badikhel people considered themselves fortunate, Harcourt said from Nepal.

Badikhel escaped the large loss of life suffered in more densely populated areas, he said.

"I look around and do feel a sense of hopelessness about how they will rebuild their shattered lives but they are still able to smile and there is a sense of optimism here."

Reuben Harcourt/Facebook Destroyed houses in Badikhel in Godawari district of Nepal

Four days after the earthquake, the villagers of Badikhel felt safe enough to start trying to pick up the pieces and clean up.

However they would be sleeping out in the open, in makeshift tents for those who had them, and living off meagre food stocks for the foreseeable future, Harcourt said.

He wanted to take advantage of being in the area to raise funds that could go to those directly affected.

Reuben Harcourt/Facebook Destroyed houses in Badikhel in Godawari district of Nepal

"There are terrible stories surfacing by word of mouth every day here about tragic losses of life and livelihood in the rural areas," he said.

"This is a rare opportunity and I'm not going to waste it. What's small change at home is a fortune here."

He said any money raised on through a Facebook event would be put towards establishing a relief centre in Badikhel and to provide shelter, water, food and batteries for torches.

Global Volunteer Network program specialist Fiona Millar said efforts such as Harcourt's were needed because they often reached people outside the usual networks.

"Over the course of the weekend, Reuben has made incredible efforts in mobilising his support base to raise funds for relief efforts in Badikhel village ... it's an inspiring example of human connection at a time of need.

"He is already in Badikhel and he knows the community. He is living, helping and surviving with the community, and thus has firsthand knowledge of what their needs are.

"We have no doubt that Reuben and the community will use funds raised on what is urgently needed, in a timely fashion and for those that need it most."

The high need in so many areas of Nepal meant it was unlikely international aid would reach small villages such as Badikhel in the near future, she said. "It will receive aid at some stage, but there's no guarantee of this or any possible timeframe."

Global Volunteer Network's own appeal has currently raised more than US$10,000.

To donate to Stuff's fundraiser for Nepal, please click here.

- Stuff
</text>