<url>
http://www.ocregister.com/articles/bista-659657-nepal-people.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Soka University student plans to help Nepal quake victims
</headline>

<text>
A Soka University student from Nepal who works to build schools in his native country is preparing to lead a group from Orange County to help rebuild earthquake-devastated areas near Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu.

Prakash Bista, in his second year at Soka, said Monday that any money he raises through a GoFundMe campaign called “Send Love to Nepal” will go directly to rebuilding efforts. The students he’s planning to lead to Nepal next month will pay for their travel through grants and fellowships.

“We want to make sure that every penny that is donated goes directly to the victims,” Bista said.

“We’ve all seen how these people are in need of everything – medicines, clothes, sanitation. They have nothing,” he added.

An estimated 4,000 people died and tens of thousands were injured as a result of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that on Saturday hit Nepal, just outside the capital of Kathmandu.

Bista launched his online funding campaign on Sunday and by Monday, James J. Peterson, chief executive of Aliso Viejo-based Microsemi Corporation, pledged up to $25,000 in matching funds for the effort. Paul Pickle, president of Microsemi, said he and Peterson have been impressed by Bista’s drive to help people in dire need.

“As a company that believes in philanthropy, we felt we had the responsibility to contribute,” Pickle said. “We can see (Bista) wants to make a difference at a grass-roots level.”

In 2010, Bista, who was orphaned as a teenager, started the first nonprofit elementary school in his home village of Lalu, an area designated by the United Nations as one of the most underserved in the world.

Since then, Bista has enrolled at Soka and won fellowships and grants to build several more schools in the region. He was among The Register’s 100 Most Influential People in Orange County for 2014.

Bista and four other students – Vicki Mokuria, Hiromi Narita, Kaito Morita and Paresh Khetan – will fly to Kathmandu between May 16 and mid-June. All of the students were already scheduled to be in Nepal during that time as part of a grant or fellowship, Bista said. They’ll squeeze in a couple of weeks to help regions hit by the quake, he said.

Khetan, a sophomore majoring in international studies and a Nepal native, said he connected with his parents Sunday and was relieved to hear they are safe.

“They are scared to go back into the house because of the aftershocks,” Khetan said. “So they’re just living outside, camping out with everyone else.”

Khetan described stories of people helping one another in his hometown as “heartwarming.”

“There’s a lot of work to be done. I’ll do anything I can to help them rebuild.”

Narita, also a sophomore international studies major, said she feels kinship with the people of Nepal.

“I was in Japan when the earthquake and tsunami happened (in 2011),” she said. “I know how emotionally devastating it can be, how hard it can be. I think I can help people cope because I have that experience.”

Mahesh Kushwaha, Prasun Shrestha and Samikshya Bhusal, who will be attending Soka as freshmen in the fall, will join the other students in Kathmandu. Bista said he and the three Nepalese students will then travel to the more treacherous Gorkha and Lamjung districts, where entire villages have been flattened by the quake.

“I’ve been told that in these villages, not enough people survived to rescue others,” Bista said.

Bista said they will take a bus to the district headquarters and then walk to the affected villages, and that they may have to walk for days to reach the most remote areas.

The other students are expected to remain in Kathmandu and connect with relief agencies, where Bista said they will focus on helping children and families. Up to 1 million children have been affected by the Nepal earthquake, according to a report Monday by UNICEF.

“We’ll spend most of the funds in immediate relief efforts like tents, food, clothes and medicine,” Bista said. “We’ll also use part of the money to repair schools and infrastructure that has been damaged during the earthquake.”

Contact the writer: 714-796-7909 or dbharath@ocregister.com
</text>