<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/150-tourists-from-Nashik-stranded-in-Nepal/articleshow/47055418.cms
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
150 tourists from Nashik stranded in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
NASHIK: Around 150 people from Nashik are reported stranded and the whereabouts of 20 trekkers are still to be ascertained after the devastating earthquake in Nepal on Saturday morning.City tour operators said 50 tourists were reported to be safe in Pashupatinath and another 80 stranded along the border but the 20 trekkers were to be traced till late on Saturday night.Officials at the Maharashtra Information Centre, Delhi, said about 150 people from Nashik were reported to have gone for pilgrimage to Nepal. Another 15 families from a private firm were reported to be stranded in Nepal.Brijmohan Chaudhary, director of a private travel agency here, said about 50 people were safe in Pashupatinath. "The group of 50 people had gone to Nepal last week and were expected to return on April 26. We immediately contacted the Nepal officials and confirmed that the tourists are safe in Pashupatinath," he added.Chaudhary said the routes towards the pilgrimage spot have not incurred any damage and talks were underway to ensure safe return of the tourists. "There are two more buses with 80 tourists from the city, who are reported to be at the border. The buses were stopped from entering Nepal after the news of the massive earthquake. If the bus route is safe, they could be sent to Nepal or they will return," he said.District collector Deependrasingh Khushwah said over 100 people from the city were reported to be stranded in Nepal. Relatives of tourists should contact the control room set up by the government. "Once the relatives share the contact details and other information, the tourists will be located with the help of the Centre and Nepal government. Efforts would be made to bring them back safely to the city," he added.He added that the number of Nashik residents currently in Nepal could rise after the relatives inform the local authorities. "The exact number of people trapped or stranded would be known once the relatives start approaching the office. At present, there is no system through which the tourists can directly inform the district administration before travelling outstation. The exact number would be clear by Sunday afternoon," he said.President of Travel Agents Association of Nashik (TAAN) Datta Bhalerao said they were still assessing the situation in Nepal and deciding on the route to be followed for the safe return of all tourists. "All travel agents contacted each other after the news of the earthquake and are coordinating the return route details. The information regarding any personal tours or booking through the internet from the city is not available. Also, information about the trekkers has been sought," he added.City resident Abhay Kulkarni said his younger brother Pravin Kulkarni, who works with a private firm, is among the 15 families visiting Nepal currently. The company had informed a friend of the families were safe. "A member of the group had informed the company about their safety after the incident. However, no contact has been established with the members since then," he added.As per instructions of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, a cell has been set up at Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi to help citizens locate their relatives in Nepal. This cell will work in close coordination with ministry of external affairs and the home ministry to locate persons in Nepal.
</text>