<url>
http://www.news.com.au/national/tasmania/nepal-earthquake-search-for-survivors-continues/story-fnn32rbc-1227325180264
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: search for survivors continues
</headline>

<text>
THE family and friends of two Tasmanian families were celebrating last night after they received news that their loved ones had survived Nepal’s devastating earthquake.

Julien Tempone-Wiltshire, 24, and Jenny Davson-Galle, 29, both raised in Launceston, have been in contact to say they are alive and well .

Jenny’s mother Christine Davson-Galle said her husband Peter had received a call in Launceston from their daughter “from the top of a mountain somewhere.”

“She’s alive!” a delighted Mrs Davson-Galle said.

“The line was very bad but she will be in contact in the next couple of days,” she said.

Mrs Davson-Galle said she was confident that her daughter would be OK, but was relieved she had been in contact.

“She has been travelling to the area since she was 16 and has trekked 900km across the Himalayas. I thought she’d be off on a trek somewhere, out of phone contact.”

Mrs Davson-Galle said the family’s thoughts and prayers were with those who have experienced loss in recent days.

Mr Tempone-Wiltshire, who now lives in Canberra, has been found safe in the town of Briddim in the Langtang National Park in Nepal, according to friends on social media.

Reports are that Mr Tempone-Wiltshire was flown out of the avalanche area where aid is desperately needed.

There is no official count of how many Australians are missing, but the Red Cross estimates it is more than 200.

Premier Will Hodgman has offered his support to all Tasmanians concerned for the welfare of loved ones in Nepal.

More than 4400 people have died as a result of Saturday’s magnitude-7.8 earthquake.

“On behalf of Tasmanians I extend my deepest condolences to all of those affected by the earthquake in Nepal,” Mr Hodgman said. “The extent of the devastation is yet to be realised as the search for the missing continues and the death toll is rising.”

Helicopters crisscrossed the skies above the mountains of Gorkha district yesterday near the quake’s epicentre, ferrying the injured to clinics and taking emergency supplies back to remote villages devastated by the disaster.

The little town of Gorkha, the district’s administrative and trading centre, is being used as a staging post to get rescuers and supplies to those remote communities. Some villages are only accessible by air after landslides blocked mountain roads.

Geoff Pinnock of the UN’s World Food Program was leading a convoy of trucks north towards the worst affected areas when the rain began to pound, leaving them stuck.

“This rain has caused a landslide that has blocked my trucks. I can maybe get one truck through and take a risk driving on the dirt, but I think we’ll have to hold the materials back to try to get them out tomorrow by helicopter,” he said.

Aid workers who had reached the edges of the epicentre described entire villages reduced to rubble.

“In some villages, about 90 per cent of the houses have collapsed. They’re just flattened,” said Rebecca McAteer, an American physician who rushed to the quake zone from the distant Nepal hospital where she works.

Thomas Meyer, an engineer with the International Nepal Fellowship who accompanied Ms McAteer to the devastated villages, said the disaster’s aftermath would stretch long into the future. “This is a long-term emergency,” he said. “This will need major attention for the next five years.”

Across central Nepal, including in Kathmandu, hundreds of thousands of people are still living in the open without clean water or sanitation.

At Kathmandu airport, flights arrived with emergency aid and helicopters brought in foreign trekkers and Nepalese villagers from quake-struck areas. The UN is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund for quake victims.

— with AP
</text>