<url>
http://www.times-standard.com/20150427/four-humboldt-county-travelers-in-nepal-safe-after-deadly-quake
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Four Humboldt County travelers in Nepal safe after deadly quake
</headline>

<text>
Eureka resident Dave Creech posted this photo of Nepalese emergency workers carrying an injured person brought back from Mt. Everest after a deadly avalanche. The avalanche was triggered by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck on Saturday, killing over 4,000 people in several countries. Creech and his friend Neal Carnam of Fieldbrook were on a multi-week hiking trip in Nepal and are currently awaiting a flight out of the capital of Kathmandu. Photo courtesy of Jill Creech

As a magnitude-7.8 earthquake ravaged cities and towns across Nepal on Saturday, four Humboldt County outdoorsmen were a few days hike out from the base camp of Mt. Everest — narrowly missing the avalanche that swept down the mountain, killing 18 climbers and injuring dozens.

Two of the men — 55-year-old Eureka resident Dave Creech and 64-year-old Fieldbrook resident Neal Carnam — had left the base camp two days prior to the quake. They were on a trail leading back to the village of Lukla when the country’s worst earthquake in nearly 80 years struck, according to Creech’s wife Jill. Neither were harmed.

Had the two men already made it to the second destination of their guided hiking tour at that time, the outcome could have been different. The two men were headed to the Annapurna mountain range near the country’s second largest city of Pokhara — just west of the epicenter of the deadly quake.

“They were really lucky,” Jill Creech said. “They could have been on the second part of that trip, and that would have been really bad.”

Over 4,000 people have died as a result of the quake, according to the Associated Press on Monday.

Meanwhile in a separate guided hiking group, Fortuna resident John Robey, 62, and his friend Russell Morey, 61, of Eureka were about to reach the Mt. Everest base camp with their friend Dave Carter.

“Dave Carter’s group was a day away from base camp,” Robey’s wife Sallie said. “I’m very thankful for that. ... My concern was they wouldn’t be able to get back down the mountain. It sounds like that wasn’t the problem at all. He said there were little areas of the trail that were kind of wiped out, rocks falling.”

Dave Creech’s brother Skip said their family was able to get a hold of the guide service his brother was with, which told them on their second call that Dave had checked in to say he was alright. With many areas losing power and connection being sporadic, communication between the families was difficult at first. But knowing his brother’s trip itinerary helped quell Skip Creech’s concern of the two men’s whereabouts.

“I felt fairly confident he was OK because Dave was at the bottom of the mountain,” he said. “We were hoping it was one of the safest places to be.”

Advertisement

After Dave Creech and Carnam arrived back in the village, Creech began to post photos to Facebook as the helicopters carried back wounded people from Mt. Everest, saying that there were “a lot of injured. Some of the ones we stayed with among them.” He also posted that there have been aftershocks and that people wouldn’t go in buildings but were sitting out in front of them.

“They were in the best case scenario in this little village,” Jill Creech said. “It didn’t have any damage. Neal, being the engineer he is, determined the hotel they were staying in was structurally sound.”

After three days in Lukla, the two men were able to get a flight back to the capital of Kathmandu where they are currently awaiting a flight out of the country. But with countries large and small sending medical and rescue teams and basic supplies in, the small Kathmandu airport is reported to be congested and chaotic, with some flights forced to turn back early in the day, according to a Monday report by the Associated Press.

“My feeling is all the foreigners are going to get out and they’ll be fine,” said Barbara Carnam, Neal Carnam’s wife. “It’s the folks that are left behind that are really in need.”

Meanwhile, Sallie Robey and Russell Morey’s wife Merry Coor have been keeping in contact with their husbands as the two men hike back to Lukla. There the two men will have to await a flight back to the city.

“Everybody sleeps in their clothes in case of another earthquake,” Sallie Robey said, relaying what she has heard from her husband. “They’re all staying warm and well fed. He said that everybody in our group is strong and healthy.”

Will Houston can be reached at 707-441-0504.
</text>