<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/southland-times/68108902/southlanders-safe-in-nepal-following-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Southlanders safe in Nepal following earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Southlanders safe in Nepal following earthquake

Supplied Liz Scott, from the Fiordland Medical Practice, was in Nepal when the earthquake struck. She is finally on the way home.

A Te Anau doctor clung to an archway at a temple in Nepal as bricks fell down around her during the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the nation on Saturday.

General practitioner at Fiordland Medical Practice Liz Scott said she was filling in time on her last day in Nepal when the earthquake struck as she was about to leave a temple.

At the start of the shaking she was not all that worried for her safety but the earthquake rapidly got a lot worse.

Clan Ayson NZ Society Gore man Bevin Watt, pictured on his farm, was in Nepal when the earthquake struck. He has contacted family to let them know he is safe, and plans to continue his trip hiking in the Himalayas.

"The whole thing was shaking and bricks were falling and I was worried that the wood [of the archway] wouldn't hold."

"Afterwards I stumbled out without being able to see anything and found my friend. We wondered if we should start looking for people in the rubble but then aftershocks started."

The earthquake was probably about 30 seconds, but it felt longer, she said.

"I just wanted to get out of there, I wanted to go somewhere safe and I was kind of aware I didn't want to miss my plane.

"As a doctor, I wanted to help with disaster relief but it was hard with no equipment and not enough of the language."

It was difficult for the widespread impact of the earthquake to sink in, she said .

"It wasn't like heaps of buildings came down in Kathmandu, the older ones weren't very well built and they seemed to be the ones that collapsed.

"They're saying 3,000 people, but I'm sure the death toll will be much higher than that."

Her partner Patrick Howard said Scott had been in Nepal for about four weeks before the earthquake and was in the country scouting out a hospital she was planning on volunteering at later in the year.

"I was quite lucky, she rang virtually while it was still going one, so I heard about it from her before I saw it one the news.

"It helped knowing she was okay before I realised how bad it was but I was still worried about her because she's still there."

Scott's brother, Robert Scott was unaware of how bad the earthquake was until he saw reports on Sunday morning.

"When I realised how bad it was, I just sat in bed and I felt so hopeless. It's been a long few days for our family."

After her Saturday flight home was cancelled, Scott has been waiting for a flight out of Kathmandu for the last three and a half days.

Speaking from the departure lounge at Kathmandu Airport, Scott said she was glad to finally have a boarding pass in her hand and be heading home.

"I will be back at work next week and it'll just be good to get home," she said.

Scott is expected to arrive back in New Zealand on April 30.

While Scott is eager to get home, Gore man Bevin Watt is determined to continue his hiking trip in the Himalayas.

His wife Colleen described a nervous wait for news of her husband after the earthquake struck.

Bevin had only arrived in Nepal the day before, with plans to hike around the Himalayas.

"It was certainly an anxious few hours," she said.

She received a text message three hours after the quake from an unknown cellphone saying he was okay, but lost touch with him again after a second quake in the region.

"My daughter then listed him missing with the Red Cross, but I've since heard from him," Colleen said.

He called her from the small town of Lukla on Monday night.

He did not describe anything of what he had seen, she said.

"It was a bad line, I could hear him, but he couldn't hear me."

Despite there being an airstrip in Lukla, Bevin has no plans to leave the region.

"He is going to finish his trip," Colleen said.

He had been assured there were safe zones he could still visit and trek through, so would continue his holiday until May 23, when he would return home, she said.

Meanwhile, Colleen was not nervous anymore, she said.

"I've heard from him, he's safe, he's fine."

Bevin is a keen tramper and climbed Mt Kilimanjaro in 2013.

- The Southland Times
</text>