<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/noida/Ghaziabads-Nepalese-families-worry-about-kin-back-home/articleshow/47090586.cms
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Ghaziabad’s Nepalese families worry about kin back home
</headline>

<text>
GHAZIABAD: Nepalese families settled in the city's Trans-Hindon areas are worried about the fate of their relatives back home after they lost contact with them following the massive earthquake on Saturday. Their efforts to reach out to their relatives over phone have received a set back because of inclement weather and a large volume of telephonic traffic.Chhaya Shukla, 24, an executive with a Patparganj-based private company, who lives with her mother in Vaishali Sector 5, told TOI she had last spoken to her father Ram Bilash Shukla three days ago. Her father, who works in Kathmandu, has reportedly shifted from the valley to the plains after the earthquake."The last time I spoke to my father, he said he was going to Sarlahi district in the plains along with a few of my cousins. Our house in Kathmandu has developed cracks and is not fit to live anymore. But I haven't been able to contact him after that. Relatives who stayed back in Kathmandu tell us that my father and other cousins have camped in an open area in Sarlahi. I'm also told there is heavy downpour in the region," said Chhaya.Most Nepalese families settled in Ghaziabad have been making frantic efforts to try and contact the administration to reach out to their relatives. Though many of these families had left Nepal several years ago to settle in India, many of their relatives are still there.Sixty six-year-old Bhakta Sonari, a retired official living with his family in Shipra Riviera apartments in Indirapuram, told TOI that his brother's family had called him from Nepal informing him that though they were alive, some family members had been injured in the temblor. Sonari said his nephew, Suben Gurung, 40, lives with his family in Lalitpur, Kathmandu."Suben's 12-year-old daughter had injured her leg with debris falling on her. He also said the front portion of their house had collapsed, damaging their car too. He occasionally sends a message assuring us that everything is fine. But we are worried. Do they have enough food and ration? Do they have sufficient cash?" said Sonari.The trauma of Nepalese families in Ghaziabad has not escaped the attention of their neighbours. Several residents' groups are already raising funds to be sent to Nepal. "We began collecting funds from the residents Tuesday onwards. So far, we have collected around Rs 35,000. We have set ourselves a target to collect at least Rs 1 lakh in the next two-three days," said Alok Kumar, president, Federation of Apartment Owners' Association of Ghaziabad
</text>