<url>
http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2015/04/27/mother-daughter-making-way-to-join-relief-groups-in-nepal/26488773/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Delaware pair to join efforts in Nepal as relief pours in
</headline>

<text>
Sixty-nine members of the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue Team await takeoff on a U.S. Air Force C-17 Globemaster III at Dover Air Force Base, Del., April 26, 2015. The specially trained team and approximately 70,000 pounds of their supplies are deploying to Nepal to assist with rescue operations after the country was struck by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake. (U.S. Air Force photo/Airman 1st Class William Johnson) (Photo: Secretary of the Air Force Public Affairs)

WILMINGTON, Del. — Civilian and government relief groups, including two launched from Dover Air Force Base, have begun arriving in Nepal in large numbers as part of an international effort to save victims of Saturday's massive earthquake that as of Monday evening had claimed more than 4,000 lives.

Dagsboro residents Amy Kaufman and her daughter Holly hope to join the effort.

The two were in Rishikesh, India, trying to make their way to Nepal on a non-emergency charity mission for their non-profit group, the Shauna Rose Kaufman Foundation, when the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit. The foundation has been performing charity work there for five years.

The two now are trying to join the relief effort, which includes doctors, volunteers and equipment pouring into Nepal following the reopening of Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. Some aid vehicles were also able to travel overland from India to the stricken Nepalese city of Pokhara, according to reports.

Secretary of State John Kerry announced Monday that the U.S. will send an additional $9 million in aid to Nepal, bringing the total so far to $10 million.

The Kaufmans have been emailing with a friend in Nepal who has been describing the devastation.

"I am now leaving for volunteering work in a rescue team" to remove dead bodies from demolished houses in Sankhu/eastern part of Kathmandu," Ram Krishna, one of the foundation's board members, wrote to the Kaufmans on Sunday.

"Please, Please, Please do pray for the peace souls of the death people," he said.

Relief groups, which began arriving in Nepal Sunday, say there is still time to save lives.

The foundation was started after Amy Kaufman's other daughter, Shauna, died six years ago in a car accident near Georgetown, Md. The foundation's work has involved art projects in Shauna's name and a trip to Nepal to teach English.

"We are coordinating a plan now as to how we can best help in Nepal," Kaufman said in an email. "If donations are sent through our 501(c)(3) now, we can access as Indian rupees, which I believe will be more valuable and are readily accepted in Nepal.

"We will be updating on our website, a designated Nepal Relief Fund, for direct donations."

She said 100% will be used for relief.

(Photo: COURTESY OF AMY KAUFMAN)

Dover relief

Two Air Force cargo jets carrying three emergency response teams, two of whom boarded a jet in Dover, were expected to land in Nepal Monday evening Eastern Time.

The relief flights are part of an international effort to search for survivors and provide aid as a second American victim was identified as one of 18 who died on Mount Everest in a massive avalanche triggered by the earthquake.

Additional Pentagon support will pivot on an assessment conducted by an arriving U.S. State Department response team, Marine Corps Lt. Col. Jeffrey Pool, a Pentagon spokesman, said Monday.

The C-17 aircraft that launched from Dover is transporting nearly 70 people, including a U.S. Agency for International Development Disaster Assistance Response Team, the Fairfax County Urban Search and Rescue team and several journalists, along with 45 square tons of cargo, Pentagon spokesman Army Col. Steve Warren said in a statement issued Sunday.

(Photo: William R Johnson, A1C, USAF)

That jet is not assigned to the Dover fleet and originated at Joint Base Maguire-Dix-Lakehurst, N.J., officials said.

Another C-17, taking off from Joint Base Charleston, S.C., picked up about 50 members of an urban search-and-rescue team from Los Angeles at March Air Force Base, Calif., according to Pool.

The two jets, which began their journeys Sunday, are bound for Tribhuvan, Warren said.

In addition to the rescue personnel, the C-17 that took off from Dover also was carrying six K-9 dogs to assist Nepal with rescue operations, said Airman 1st Class William Johnson, a Dover spokesman.

'People are very scared'

The Kaufmans shared two emails from board member Ram Krishna. In his Sunday email, Krishna described the devastation:

"Hope this email finds you all well. Yesterday's earthquake was very disastrous, thousands of people have died and numbers will rise as many villages have been cut up with communication and electricity. We don't have electricity since yesterday morning. We all spent the whole night in a small open place experiencing more than 68 shocks after the 1st shocked at 11:56 am. It's really really scary, can't think what to do. We had again big shock this morning around 5 am.

"According to the news, many villages have been disconnected with the communication. Most of the old monuments have been demolished, it affects very badly in the economy of Nepal.

"We all are still safe and people are very scared as shocks go on and on.

"This is all for now and will update you again this evening."

The following day Krishna wrote how he felt odd taking pictures while distributing food:

"I am so sorry that I couldn't update you last evening as we didn't have electricity and I was very tired after returning from rescuing work. When I went to Sankhu/eastern part of Kathmandu, it was chaos and ruin the very nice small town. It made me cry. I can't explain it by words what I had seen there. I went there this morning again and volunteering digging the demolished houses and able to take out three death bodies. There are still hundreds of death body, under the demolished houses.

"Yesterday and this morning when I went to Sankhu, I had taken some instant foods noodles, biscuits and juice to distribute to the suffered people. The portion was very very little compared to the victimized people over there and I couldn't afford much which is very sad. I had given some instant noodles to the children and older people, and biscuits and some juice.

"I worked there as a volunteer in the coordination of Turkish rescue team and Nepalese police who were trying to take out the death body from the demolished houses. Turkish volunteers found me very useful as a translator with the local volunteer and police rescue team. So, I did volunteering and translating too, though Turkish people don't speak much English.

"Situation is still very very bad as the rescue teams and volunteers haven't reached yet in the remote areas where people have been suffering a lot and can't imagine what they are doing now over there. People and rescue team are just working in the town and city nearby the district headquarters. More and more International volunteering are trying to come too."

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal | 0:57 The helicopter went missing near Charikot, Nepal, which was one of the areas hit hardest by the most recent earthquake. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 1 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal | 1:45 A helicopter from Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 lost contact with units on the ground Tuesday. One day earlier, on May 11, the squadron described its mission to deliver food and supplies to the rural areas of Nepal. VPC 2 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith | 1:34 A man in Nepal, who lost his son and mother-in-law in the April 25 quake, said his faith is shaken after another major earthquake shook his country. VPC 3 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL 'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera | 1:13 A magnitude 7.3 earthquake shook the ground in Nepal just weeks after another huge quake killed more than 8,000 people. Photographers traveling with a Delaware medical team for relief efforts captured the second quake on camera. 4 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rattled by second major earthquake | 1:13 For the second time in a matter of weeks, a earthquake with a magnitude greater that 7 hit Nepal. It triggered landslides and toppled buildings but most likely won't be as deadly as the April 25 earthquake that killed more than 8,000 people. Wochit 5 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake | 0:31 People gather in the streets of Nepal after a second major earthquake struck the country. It happened just weeks after the first quake killed thousands. VPC 6 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal | 0:43 A major earthquake hit Nepal on Tuesday, just weeks after an earthquake left thousands dead. Some buildings collapsed. At least 4 people are dead. (May 12) AP 7 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help | 1:28 A medical team from Delaware arrived in Nepal to help with disaster relief efforts following a massive earthquake that killed thousands. Each team member brought roughly 100 pounds of medical supplies with them. VPC 8 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal | 0:41 Helicopters from the U.S. have begun a mission to fly much-needed supplies to communities in Nepal devastated by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake responsible for the death of thousands. (May 4) AP 9 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage | 1:57 Drone footage shot on Friday showed the widespread devastation caused by last weekend's earthquake in Nepal. (May 1) AP 10 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal | 0:54 Rescuers in Kathmandu, Nepal, pulled a teenage boy alive from the rubble of a collapsed building Thursday. The boy had been trapped since the earthquake on Saturday. (April 30) AP 11 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble | 1:11 A rescue team pulled a man from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly earthquake hit Nepal. The survivor said he had given up all hope of rescue but kept banging on the rubble, which buried him. (Apr AP 12 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square | 2:07 A tourist in Bhaktapur, a short distance from Kathmandu, caught on camera the moment Saturday's devastating earthquake hit the city causing thousands of deaths and widespread damage. (April 30) AP 13 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal | 2:17 Drone footage captured by CNN shows the level of destruction in earthquake-ravaged Kathmandu, Nepal. Time 14 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest | 0:53 The number of fatalities on Mount Everest from Nepal's devastating earthquake on Saturday has climbed to 19. Injured climbers were taken out from base camp by helicopter for treatment. (April 30) AP 15 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake | 1:26 Videos taken from a drone on Monday showed the extent of the devastation in the capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake. (April 28) AP 16 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal | 1:11 Nepalese rescue helicopters continued to bring out the injured from remote areas in Nepal following last week's earthquake. AP 17 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal | 0:47 U.S. relief supplies arrived in Nepal as the country continues to deal with a devastating earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people. (April 29) AP 18 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal | 1:23 Joanne Long was 10 miles from the epicenter of Nepal's massive earthquake when it hit. Her family back in Texas has been worried sick after not hearing from her for days, but that may have just changed. VPC 19 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy | 1:23 A mountain guide trapped on Mount Everest talks about the pain of losing one of his team in the deadly avalanche triggered by the earthquake in Nepal. Jen Markham (@jenmarkham) has more. Buzz60 20 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest | 1:57 Mariusz Malkwoski was set to climb Mount Everest when a devastating earthquake hit Nepal. Malkowski, who was not injured, says he considers himself extremely lucky. (April 28) AP 21 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors | 1:32 A Chinese rescue team on Tuesday searched for survivors buried under rubble in the Gongabo district of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. (April 28) AP 22 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset | 0:50 Rescuers are still at work in Kathmandu as the sun sets on the third day after a deadly earthquake struck the country. Duration: 00:51 Video provided by AFP Newslook 23 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making | 1:07 Watch a visual explaination of the Nepal earthquake at Denver's Museum of Nature and Science. VPC 24 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage | 1:34 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake rose to 3,218 on Monday, two days after the massive quake ripped across this Himalayan nation, leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (April 27) AP 25 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal | 1:09 Surveillance footage shows the moment when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal. Video provided by AFP AFP 26 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake | 0:44 The Nepalese Army on Monday released aerial shots it filmed on Sunday of the devastation caused by the earthquake that struck over the weekend. (April 27) AP 27 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble | 0:40 Turkish rescue workers in Katmandu, Nepal pulled a man alive April 27, 2015, from the rubble of a destroyed building on Monday. The rescue comes two days a massive earthquake killed more than three-thousand. AP 28 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal | 0:47 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake soared past 3,300 Monday. Rescue workers are still struggling to reach vulnerable mountain villages two days after the initial quake. (April 27) AP 29 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors | 0:33 Powerful aftershocks rocked Nepal Sunday, panicking survivors of a quake that killed more than 2,500, as rescuers dug through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu. Video provided by AFP AFP 30 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal | 0:58 A powerful, 7.8-magnitude earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, collapsing houses and leveling centuries-old temples in the worst temblor in the Himalayan nation in over 80 years. (April 25) AP 31 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake | 1:46 Eve Girawong was climbing Mount Everest with Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering when she was killed by an avalanche. It was triggered by a massive earthquake that killed thousands of others in Nepal. VPC 32 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal | 1:14 Rescue workers in Kathmandu pulled a man from a badly damaged building on Sunday, a day after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, leaving more than 1,900 people dead. A magnitude 6.7 aftershock jolted Kathmandu Sunday morning, (April 26) AP 33 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake | 1:27 The death toll continues to rise after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. The quake destroyed homes and centuries-old temples. Neighboring countries also felt shocks and reported casualties. Wochit 34 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India | 0:43 Officials say at least 34 people have been killed and dozens more injured in India after a powerful earthquake struck neighboring Nepal on Saturday. (April 25) AP 35 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake | 0:45 Dozens of students are among those injured in northeastern India as a result of the massive earthquake that hit the region include Nepal, China and Bangladesh. Video provided by AFP AFP 36 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest | 1:11 The death toll is in the thousands following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake in Nepal. The quake also sparked an avalanche at Mount Everest. Rescue workers continue to search for missing and trapped people. Wochit 37 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts | 0:41 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. Wochit 38 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing | 1:57 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. AP 39 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake | 1:24 A day after a massive Himalayan earthquake killed more than 2,200 people, rescue efforts continued for trapped victims as panicked tourists looked to flee. (April 26) AP 40 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken | 1:13 A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing at least 1,180 people and triggering a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest. It was the worst quake to hit Nepal in decades. (April 25) AP 41 of 41 Last VideoNext Video US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal

Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal

Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith

'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera

Nepal rattled by second major earthquake

See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake

Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal

Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help

Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal

Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage

Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal

Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble

Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square

Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal

Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest

Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake

Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal

Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal

Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal

Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy

NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest

Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors

Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset

Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making

Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage

CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal

Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble

Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal

Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors

Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal

American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal

Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake

Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India

Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake

Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest

Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts

Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing

Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake

Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1zhH0C6
</text>