<url>
http://www.thewhig.com/2015/04/27/nepalese-man-shocked
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese man 'shocked'
</headline>

<text>
Pema Lama Tinley has been in Canada for seven months, visiting as part of a cross-cultural and cross-educational initiative to speak to and teach Kingston school children Buddhist philosophy, meditation and a bit about his homeland in Nepal.

He was planning to head home to apply for another Canadian visa when he heard the news early Saturday morning that an earthquake hit Kathmandu and has now claimed more than 4,000 lives.

"I couldn't think. I just felt shock," the lama, a term bestowed on high-ranking Buddhist monks, said. With no Internet or phone connection, especially in more remote areas, Tinley thought his family and friends were dead. "If they're dead, what am I supposed to do now?"

As news came in, he managed to make contact with most of his family, but is still waiting to hear back from some people in Sankhu, a remote village east of Kathmandu, the capital.

"Looking at pictures of Kathmandu and the surrounding villages, totally finished. That was very, very hard," he said. "Still I am shocked."

Tinley came to the city after meeting Leslie Myles while she was trekking through Nepal in 2013. They met at a cafe in Kapan, Myles because her flight was delayed and Tinley because he went to the cafe most days to relax.

It was there they realized they had a shared interest in children's education. Myles, who works as the managing director of the Limestone Learning Foundation, had started a program where children in Sankhu and Kingston could write letters to each other as pen pals.

"It's tangible for these kids because they read every day out of textbooks, but they don't get a real live experiential piece. I mean, who writes a letter now, right?" she said.

She thought Tinley's wisdom would be an even better experience for local children, so she invited him to visit through the Global Connection Project.

"It's not about religion, it's about teaching respect," Myles explained.

"Religion is for after death, this is for now to share caring and kindness. Human respect must come first," Tinley added.

The program has been a huge success, with teachers coming up to Tinley after the school sessions to ask how he manages to make young, restless children sit and meditate. Many have written to him, including Isabelle, a grade schooler from Central Public School.

Tinley said he has enjoyed learning about Canadian culture and sharing stories from Nepal to the children.

"I try to speak as best as I can and from my heart. When you speak from your heart, that's when you do the best work from your heart," he said.

Myles and Tinley also came together to create the Kingston-Nepal Foundation. Through it, they hope to reopen a medical centre in Sankhu. It closed when its only doctor moved to the United States and Tinley could no longer support pay for medicine and freely distributing it.

While the project has four acres of land with a small organic farm, the medical centre has yet to be built -- something that's a blessing and a curse. If it were built, then it could have been available to help treat some of the locals affected by the quake. However, it also could have toppled.

"For now, it's about providing immediate help," Myles said. "A dollar there goes a long way compared to here."

The Kingston-Nepal Foundation is fundraising money to help people in the village. Of the 38 homes, 10 have been reduced to rubble and 20 are so damaged the villagers are afraid to sleep inside. For now, the community is sleeping outside.

As for the children in the area, Myles said she is not sure where they are or if they're safe. Since they have to travel two to four hours to get an education, many temporarily stay closer to the school.

"I don't even know if the kids we're supporting to go to school are OK. I cannot reach anybody there. I do not know and it's heartwrenching," Myles said. "I don't know if their families are safe. I do not know."

While telling his story, Tinley often speaks slowly and deliberately, while closing his eyes, imparting bits of Buddhist wisdom. Only once does he raise his voice when he talks about government failures to prepare for the disaster.

Even still, he offers words of love and support as well as urging people and the government to learn from the disaster.

"The five elements are every strong. The human brain is very intelligent, very sharp," he said. "But we are not stronger than the five elements. We need to remember that. We have to respect that as we respect ourselves."

Temples in his village will be rebuilt, he said, and he's hopeful the country will recover and the medical centre will be built.

For now, Myles is asking people to donate and help out the remote village through their website: kingstonnepal.com.

"It's amazing what happens in this community, how it just pulls together when they're connected," she said. "They reach out so deeply. I'm always in awe and am so proud to be a part of this community."
</text>