<url>
http://www.manningrivertimes.com.au/story/3043773/former-resident-listed-as-missing/?cs=963
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Former resident listed as missing
</headline>

<text>
Tyronne White, 44, a former Manning Valley resident and student of Chatham High School in Taree, is listed as missing on the Red Cross website.

Trekking in Nepal: Tyronne White last reported to his family on April 6.

TRAILS between Kathmandu and the Chinese border in Nepal are the last known likely location of Tyronne White.

Mr White, 44, a former Manning Valley resident and student of Chatham High School in Taree, is listed as missing on the Red Cross website, Family Links, established in the wake of the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday, April 25.

The magnitude 7.8 earthquake spread horror from Kathmandu to small villages and to the slopes of Mount Everest, triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts. The deadly earthquake and aftershocks in the region has killed 3218 people with more than 6500 injured, according to the latest report from Nepal's disaster management chief Rameshwor Dangal. Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said on Monday it was unclear how many Australians were in Nepal, but said 830 of them had so far been confirmed safe.

On April 6 Mr White reported to family and friends on Facebook, "Off trekking in the morning for three weeks or so between Kathmandu and the Chinese border on the Helambu, Gosainkund, Langtang and Tamang Trails. See you all on the other side. Salud!!!"

According to his brother, Brett White of Adelaide, his family has had no contact since that post.

"It is unusual but he did say that there would be no access to the internet or technology in the places he was going," Brett said.

"He also said that if he was feeling okay after doing the trails he may catch a bus and travel elsewhere.

"We knew he may be in Kathmandu about now but it is possible that he travelled somewhere else and may not know what has happened or able to contact us.

"He usually travels by himself, unless he meets someone along the way, and he is an experienced traveller. I guess he calls the open road home."

Mr White left the Manning Valley in 2007 and is not married and has no children. He is the son of Doug White and Margaret McRae-Rope White.

Brett said he last saw his brother about two months ago in Cambodia and family and friends use social media to keep in touch with Mr White during his international travels. His Facebook page is filled with comments by family and friends appealing for him to make contact and wishing him well.

"The lack of contact would be unusual if we weren't told that there would be no access to the internet," Brett said.

"We just have to wait."

Mr White's cousin, Marc Wade Patek of Sydney told the Sydney Morning Herald, "He's a very sensible traveller. He's been in situations that would scare the hell out of us. We all just want to know that he's safe and sound wherever he is. We're a pretty close-knit family and we're trying to keep our chins up," Mr Patek said.

"As a family we're just trying to rally together and stay positive, but his mother is a mess. He would phone home, if there was any way possible. He would definitely be trying to do that.

"Hopefully they're just out of communication range. But it gets a bit scarier each day," Mr Patek added.

Earlier this week Prime Minister Tony Abbott reassured family members of missing Australians in Nepal that they should not "assume the worst".

"Australians do go trekking in that part of the world and because someone is trekking in that part of the world we shouldn't assume the worst," Mr Abbott said.

"Yes, there are Australians who are unaccounted for, and people whose family members, friends or loved ones are known to be in Nepal and northern India should at first do their best to make contact with them."

Brett has requested that if anyone has had contact with Mr White to please contact him on email timmygetfree@yahoo.com. au or phone 0410 928 776.

Also listed as missing on the Red Cross website, Family Links is Ronald Michael David Levy, 55 of Darwin. The website lists his place of birth as Taree and that he is the son of Robert and Edna Levy.

If you have any information about Mr Levy please visit the Red Cross website, http://familylinks. icrc.org/nepal-earthquake/en/Pages/person-details.aspx?cid=42818.

ainslee.dennis@fairfaxmedia.com.au


</text>