<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-chaos-tribhuvan-international-airport-rescue/1/432474.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Chaos at Tribhuvan International Airport hampers rescue operations
</headline>

<text>
Chaos prevailed at Tribhuvan International Airport on Monday as thousands were waiting to be evacuated from the quake-ravaged country. Congestion at the airport, according to reports, is hindering the massive relief operation being carried out by teams from India and other nations.

Four Indian Air Force (IAF) transporters had to return to their bases as they could not land at Kathmandu airport owing to heavy air traffic. The Kathmandu airfield is teeming with stranded people, who are waiting to be evacuated, even as relief materials have been piled up on the tarmac with planes arriving from across the world.

The dispersal of international aid materials is going at a slow pace as Kathmandu is struggling to restore infrastructure.

The IAF had to re-locate four of its helicopters to Kathmandu outskirts to ease air traffic congestion. The IAF planes that turned back midair were carrying communication equipment and rescue teams. They returned to Kathmandu later in the night with supplies like five tonnes of milk, light vehicles, RO plant, oxygen regenerators and noodles.

Planes turned back

The IAF is undertaking its biggest airlift operation and pressed into service more than a dozen transport aircraft, including super heavy lifter C-17s, special operations aircraft C-130J and old work horses IL-76s and An-32s.

Kathmandu airport is crowded even on a normal day, according to officials. As thousands of people are gathering at the airport to get a flight back home, the problem is getting worse.

India - the first country to respond to the tragedy - has launched Operation Maitri to help evacuate people stranded in the quake-hit areas. Now help has arrived in Kathmandu from Pakistan, China and Israel.

Spain on Monday sought India's help to evacuate its nationals from Nepal. Spanish foreign minister Garcio-Margallo, who called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, sought his government's assistance.

The Indian Army has also stepped up its efforts. A movement control team was set up in Kathmandu for directing relief convoys. Based on the requirements highlighted by the Nepalese Army, a task force headquarters was established in Kathmandu under the leadership of Major General J.S. Sandhu of the Indian Army. Another task force has been set up at Barpak in the Gorkha district under Brigadier Gamlin.

The officials said a road from Kathmandu to Pokhara was opened by Engineer Task Force and a satellite communication link has been set up between Nepalese Army headquarters and Indian Army Engineer Task Force. The Advanced Light Helicopters of the Army have also been pressed into service. As the death toll crossed 4,000, the IAF has decided to continue its rescue and relief operation on Tuesday also.
</text>