<url>
http://www.sfgate.com/bayarea/article/San-Francisco-climber-survived-Everest-6227249.php
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
San Francisco climber survived Everest avalanches, remains stuck
</headline>

<text>
San Francisco climber survived Everest avalanches, remains stuck

As the death toll mounted Monday from the devastating earthquake in Nepal, San Francisco resident Terry Trevino waited and hoped.

Trevino, 51, is worried about his wife, 43-year-old adventurer Siobhan McFeeney, who is at Mount Everest’s partially buried base camp after being helicoptered to relative safety from above.

McFeeney was a day’s climb up from the camp, on a span of ladders aptly named the Golden Gate, when the quake struck Saturday and set off a series of avalanches that killed at least 18 people, including four Americans, trying to summit the world’s tallest peak.

“Siobhan said she just held on for dear life,” Trevino recalled Monday after hearing from her, via satellite phone, and learning the mother of his four children was unhurt but still stuck on the mountain.

The 7.8-magnitude quake has many Bay Area residents looking to Nepal, seeking information on the plight of loved ones who either live there or were traveling in the country. Others are looking for ways to help those in need.

McFeeney’s next move, as with many others touched by the tragedy, remains unclear. The poor Himalayan nation remains gripped by bloodshed and uncertainty from the slopes of Everest to the capital of Kathmandu, and rescue efforts are expected to take time.

Aid workers, many still arriving from abroad, continued to dig through the rubble of cities and villages Monday in search of survivors. Thousands have died and tens of thousands have lost their homes, while sacred sites have toppled. Food, water, medicine, power and gasoline remained in short supply.

Temporary relief

As Everest still shook from the quake, McFeeney made her way up the mountain’s infamous ice fall on Saturday, finding temporary relief at Camp 1, about 20,000 feet above sea level, her husband said.

A day later she was shuttled by helicopter back to the base camp, where on Monday she was figuring out what to do.

“She’s OK food-wise, and she has plenty of fuel to melt ice for water,” Trevino said. “Naturally, we’re worried.”

Reports from blog posts and social media detail a picture of ruin at base camp. Tents, gear and clothing litter the popular staging area, where a wall of snow came thundering down.

Sherpas were reportedly escorting dozens of injured climbers to safety while clearing the bodies of those less fortunate.

Among at least four Americans confirmed dead on the mountain was Dan Fredinburg, 33, a Google executive from San Francisco. Climber Jon Reiter, 50, a home builder in Kenwood, who was also at the base camp when the earthquake hit, survived, his wife reported.

Rescue efforts on the mountain were slowed by cold, wet weather, and it remained unclear when and how the stranded would make their way down — and whether they would be assisted.

Climbers worried that villages and supply depots where they had stocked up during their week-plus trek to base camp, and would need to revisit on the way down, had been leveled and would be without necessary food and gear.

'Serene ... deadly’

“It’s serene, but it’s deadly,” McFeeney wrote in one of her latest text messages.

Her friend Katie Hanrahan, 33, also of San Francisco, had hiked with McFeeney to the base camp, along with McFeeney’s eldest son, Ciaran Trevino. The two, as planned, turned around at the camp so Ciaran could get back to school. They recently returned home to California.

“All these people are dead where we were standing a week ago,” Hanrahan said in a telephone interview, adding that she sort of wished she were still on the mountain, so she could try to help. “I’ve got my fingers crossed that there’s no more avalanches. Siobhan has four young children waiting for her.”

While McFeeney longs to get back to the Bay Area, some in California are just as eager to get to Nepal.

Uttam Baral, 38, was scheduled to fly to Kathmandu on Monday night to help his relatives, who survived the quake but couldn’t return home for fear of their brick-and-concrete house falling down. Baral’s father, who is 83, was already sick.

“He told me, 'I’m stressed, I don’t feel good,’” said Baral, who moved to the United States from Nepal five years ago and splits his time between Sunnyvale and Stephenville, Texas. “We can’t take my father to the hospital. There’s no room in the hospital.”

Living in a Honda

For now, Baral said, his father is living in the family’s Honda, where he’s wrapped in blankets and breathes with the assistance of an oxygen tank.

As many as 15,000 people of Nepalese ancestry live in the Bay Area, according to the Sunny Sagarmatha Society, a cultural group in Sunnyvale, and many have family or friends in Nepal whom they’re worried about.

“Nobody knows how many people have died there. Nobody knows how many people are still trapped there,” said group member Harihar Dahal of Sunnyvale. “You can imagine how scary it is not knowing.”

Kurtis Alexander is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: kalexander@sfchronicle.com

Twitter: @kurtisalexander

How to donate

Here are some of the organizations soliciting money to support relief efforts in Nepal:

Resurge International: resurge.org

Sunny Sagarmatha Society: https://www.facebook.com/sunnysagarmatha.samaj

Oxfam: oxfamamerica.org

The Salvation Army: salvationarmyusa.org

Red Cross: redcross.org

CARE: care.org

Save the Children: savethechildren.org

Unicef: unicef.org

Doctors Wihtout Borders: donate.doctorswithoutborders.org
</text>