<url>
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-reach-10-000-pm-article-1.2201585
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake death toll could reach 10,000: PM
</headline>

<text>
About 250 people went missing in devastated Nepal Tuesday during a post-earthquake mudslide, as officials warned that the quake's death toll could soar past 10,000.

The mudslide hit a village near the epicenter of Saturday's 7.8-magnitude earthquake, which killed more than 4,300 people, injured another 7,000 and triggered a Mount Everest avalanche and a set of disastrous aftershocks.

The Tuesday disaster adds to Nepal’s already monumental search and rescue mission. Heavy snow had been falling near the village, Ghodatabela, and the ground may have been loosened by the quake, possibly prompting the slide.

As teams comb through the rubble from the earthquake and its after effects, the death toll could reach and surpass 10,000, Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said.

Rescue teams pull a man from the rubble, 62 hours after he was trapped. (Bai Yang/© Bai Yang/Xinhua Press/Corbis) Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could reach 10,000 as search teams find more bodies. (JOHN THYS/AFP/Getty Images) Rescue teams pull a man from the rubble, 62 hours after he was trapped (l.). Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala (r.) said the death toll could reach 10,000 as search teams find more bodies.

The current toll does not include deaths in remote villages that have yet to report to police and Nepal officials, Koirala said.

The estimated toll would surpass Nepal’s worst quake, which killed 8,500 people in 1934, the Guardian reported.

About 8 million people were affected by the quake, which left 1.4 million without food, water and shelter, the United Nations estimated. The disaster triggered a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest that killed 17 climbers and guides and set off a series of damaging aftershocks.

Scenes from Nepal after earthquake

Nepal citizens, frustrated by the government’s slow response, used their bare hands to dig through the overwhelming rubble, hoping to find victims — or survivors.

A Chinese rescue team pulled a 21-year-old man from the rubble in Katmandu Tuesday, according to NBC News. He had been trapped for 62 hours, but his vital signs were stable, medics said.

"Waiting for help is more torturous than doing this ourselves," Pradip Subba told Reuters as he dug for the bodies of his brother and sister-in-law in the debris of Kathmandu's historic Dharahara tower. The 19th century minaret collapsed on Saturday as weekend sightseers clambered up its spiral stairs.

"Our hands are the only machine right now," he said. "There is just no one from the government or the army to help us."

Nepal officials said the government is working as best it can to clear the rubble, but the scale of the disaster has made a rescue mission a colossal task. Heavy rains Tuesday slowed the searching further.

"The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing," Koirala said. "It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal."

People look on at the devastation after an avalanche flattened parts of Everest Base Camp. (ROBERTO SCHMIDT/AFP/Getty Images)

International aid began arriving Tuesday in Kathmandu, including food, water, medical supplies and rescue dogs. However, relief has yet to trickle down to more remote areas of Nepal —where it is likely needed the most. Landslides have blocked highways, making travel between areas even more difficult.

India and China were among the first contributors to an international effort to support Nepal's stretched resources.

On Monday, the United States announced an additional $9 million in aid for Nepal, bringing total U.S. disaster funding to $10 million.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH THE VIDEO HERE.

With News Wire Services
</text>