<url>
http://newsok.com/nepal-quake-in-oklahoma-many-wait-worry/article/5414251
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: In Oklahoma, many wait, worry
</headline>

<text>
Four minutes before a 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday night, destroying homes, buildings and killing at least 4,000 people, Beverly and Pete Thibeault, of Tulsa, got an email from their son, Chris, explaining how much he loved his new home there.

Chris Thibeault left for the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu on March 30, the day before his 31st birthday, to establish a bed and breakfast with a friend and perform humanitarian work in Himalayan mountain villages.

Thibeault lived just north of Kathmandu, and told his parents he was going for a walk into town, just before the monstrous quake struck. It would be two days later before they would hear from him again.

“He’s a great communicator so we think if he could easily call us he would,” Beverly Thibeault said Monday afternoon.

But about 8:45 p.m. Monday, a friend of the family got in touch with Chris and was able to relay the news to the family; Chris is alive and well in Nepal.

Beverly said the outpouring of support to help find Chris had been unreal. When the family posted on Facebook that they had not heard from Chris, acquaintances and even strangers in surrounding countries stepped forward with offers to try to track him down.

Chris Thibeault decided to venture to Nepal after he divorced in January, a heartbreaking event for him and the family, his mother said.

Chris wanted to see the world and was in love with the people of Nepal — welcoming, hard-working and grateful for everything they have, she said.

“He was just trying to figure out the Lord’s plan for himself,” Beverly said. “He loved the people, loved the culture, loved the beauty. He was feeling happy again.”

Nepalese students rally

Elsewhere Monday, Nepalese student organizations at colleges across Oklahoma spent pleaded for assistance with everything from money to medical supplies.

Nepal native and University of Oklahoma student Sangita Rai, 20, watched news reports helplessly from her apartment in Norman, not breathing a sigh of relief until her brother managed to send her a short but reassuring email.

“We are OK,” Rai said the message read.

Rai’s parents and brother live in Kathmandu, and have spent the past two days living on a soccer field with thousands of others. Aftershocks and the fear of collapse has kept everyone from returning to what’s left of their homes.

“I haven’t been able to concentrate,” the 20-year-old Rai said. “Finals are next week, but my head is back home. We just want to try and do what we can.”

Rai and her fellow OU students, as well as students at both Oklahoma State and the University of Central Oklahoma, have started collecting medical supplies, canned food, clothes and cash.

Rai even started a fundraiser for the boarding school that helped give her the education that brought her to OU. Rai originally hoped to raise $1,500. By Monday afternoon, she’d already surpassed $1,600.

“We all knew it was going to happen,” she said of the earthquake.

“In school we had drills for this and everything every month, but we didn’t know it was going to be this devastating.”

Aman Shrestha, 22, is with the Nepal Student Association at UCO, which boasts more than 120 members, the biggest such association in the state.

Shrestha said a majority of the association members have been in contact with their immediate families, but that most also have learned that they have lost their home.

“Just trying to imagine what’s going on over there, it’s really hard for us,” Shrestha said.

“The biggest shock will be the things that I saw growing up, they are gone. Just seeing everything wrecked on TV, you feel helpless.”

A hard two days

Beverly Thibeault said the past two nights had been the hardest for her and her husband and that they didn’t sleep at all.

Originally Beverly said she was scared the next time she would see Chris would be “on the other side.”

But Chris Thibeault has more living to do.
</text>