<url>
http://www.calgarysun.com/2015/04/27/feds-to-match-donations-to-nepal-c-17-sent-to-help-with-evacuation
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Feds to match donations to Nepal, C-17 sent to help with evacuation
</headline>

<text>
A selection of photos from the devastating 7.9 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal and parts of northern India.

The federal government will match charitable donations given to the relief efforts following the deadly Nepal earthquake dollar for dollar.

The announcement of the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund was made Monday afternoon during an update on Canadian aid efforts from Minister of International Development Christian Paradis, Foreign Affairs Minister Rob Nicholson and Defence Minister Jason Kenney.

The government has also deployed a C-17 plane to Nepal to assist in evacuating Canadians to India.

The C-17 is scheduled to arrive at 5 a.m. Wednesday, Kenney said, but there may be delays because of damage to the Kathmandu airport.

Canada will also be sending emergency supplies such as jerry cans, tents and hygiene kits, Paradis said.

Eligible donations made between April 25 and May 25 will be matched by the government, Nicholson said.

"There are many capable Canadian and International organization already responding to the earthquake so as many people affected as possible get the help they need," Nicholson said.

The government announced over the weekend it would provide $5-million in emergency aid to the region and deployed the Canadian Forces Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART).

On Sunday, a CC-177 Globemaster III took off from CFB Trenton, Ont., carrying an assessment team as well as relief supplies, medical personnel and firefighters as part of the Light Urban Search and Rescue (LUSAR) team.

As of Monday afternoon, the death toll from Saturday's earthquake had topped 3,700 and is expected to rise.

Kenney said he's spoken with Nepalese officials who welcome help from Canadian troops.

"Nepal can certainly use the contribution of the Canadian Armed Forces," Kenney said. "We will decide what the extent of our contribution will be once our initial assessment team is on the ground.

"We won't send the army just to be there, it will have to be there to provide additional assistance."

Kenney also announced, on behalf of Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, the government approved quick processing of any travel or immigration documents already in the system and would consider extending any Nepalese student, visitor or work visas.

A special phone number and e-mail address has been created "to answer the questions of family members who need information about loved ones," he said.

Hundreds of replacement travel documents are already en route to Nepal for Canadians, Kenney said.

The ministers responded to criticism that Canadians in Kathmandu weren't able to get consular support after the earthquake hit.

Paradis clarified there is no embassy in Kathmandu, only an honorary consul, which was instructed to work around the clock to provide assistance. Consular officials are en route to Kathmandu, he said, but are having trouble getting there because of the damage to the airport.

Also on Monday, the Ontario government announced it would provide $1-million in aid, Saskatchewan has pledged $250,000 and Manitoba will contribute $200,000.
</text>