<url>
http://kitchener.ctvnews.ca/earthquake-in-nepal-canada-sending-more-military-personnel-for-relief-efforts-1.2348976
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Earthquake in Nepal: Canada sending more military personnel for relief efforts
</headline>

<text>


CTV Kitchener





As efforts to reach remote parts of Nepal continue following Saturday’s earthquake, Canada is stepping up its contribution to the global initiative.

The federal government announced Tuesday that 200 more military personnel are awaiting deployment to Nepal.

Included in that group are security and medical personnel, as well as engineers and support workers.

They will join a team of 40 other members of the Canadian Armed Forces, who are expected to reach the capital city of Kathmandu on Wednesday.

“To date, officials on the ground and in Ottawa … have been working around the clock since the earthquake hit to locate all Canadians in the region, and to ensure that these Canadians are safe and receive the appropriate assistance and care,” Minister of Foreign Affairs Rob Nicholson said in a statement.

Relief efforts are expected to be made more difficult over the coming days due to forecasted thunderstorms and high winds.

That weather will also pose problems for displaced Nepalese residents, many of whom are now living in makeshift tent cities.

For the first couple nights after the earthquake, one of those tent cities hosted the sisters of Sanjay Nepal.

Nepal is a geography professor at the University of Waterloo.

When he learned of the earthquake, his first thought was of his sisters in Kathmandu.

It took multiple phone calls before he finally got hold of one of them.

“They said they (were) OK and not to worry,” he said.

Power outages have complicated the possibility of further conversations between the siblings, but Nepal says both his sisters have since moved back into their homes – which were damaged, not destroyed, by the quake.

“They still have big problems with drinking water. They don’t have water at home,” Nepal said.

It is estimated that more than 4,400 people were killed in the 7.8-magnitude earthquake, although the country’s prime minister has said he expects the final number to be closer to 10,000.

The federal government has said it will match all eligible donations to the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund dollar-for-dollar until May 25, and provide relief efforts with an additional $5 million in aid.

With files from CTVNews.ca
</text>