<url>
http://cbs2iowa.com/news/features/top-stories/stories/Family-of-Iowa-Man-Relieved-to-Hear-He-39-s-OK-123311.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Family of IA Man Relieved to Hear He's OK
</headline>

<text>
NEW ALBIN, IA (CBS 2/FOX 28)-Friends and family of a northeast Iowan man are sleeping a little easier Monday night, after they found out through Facebook, their loved one is okay.

30-year-old Cole Donahue spontaneously decided to take an adventure to Nepal, after turning 30 and getting a new job in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with an aviation company.

Right now, he's okay but his trip ended early because of the earthquake.

Cole's sister-in-law, Anna Donahue, spoke with CBS 2/FOX 28 over the phone and said she is relieved to know he is okay.

"It's the best news that you could ever get," Anna said. "It felt like Christmas morning."

Since Saturday morning, when news spread a massive earthquake shook Nepal and the surrounding countries, Anna Donahue and her husband, started worrying about their brother, Cole Donahue.

He was near a Mount Everest Base Camp when the quake triggered an avalanche, burying him and six others, according to his Facebook page.

"You know you expect the worst and there's tossing and turning at night," she said.

His family filed a missing persons report with the US Embassy in Kathmandu when they didn't hear from him.

Monday morning, friends and family woke up to a post on Cole's Facebook page, saying he was okay. He hiked two days to find internet service.

"We basically started crying and jumping for joy because it was just all we've been praying for and hoping for," Anna said.

After hearing Cole was able to dig himself out, and walk away with no injuries, Anna said their main focus now, is making sure Cole gets home safely.

"It's like survivor mode at this point," she said. "It went from going to see some of the most beautiful and ancient temples and everything in Nepal to okay, now you pretty much just focus on how you're going to get back to the states."

Ann said she wouldn't be surprised if Cole goes back to Nepal, even after everything he's been through the past two days. In fact, she said Cole took a picture of himself covered in snow after he dug himself out from under the pile of snow.

"Well, I mean its Cole, he's a one-of-a-kind man," Anna said. "I think it's something he's going to have a great story to tell about."

Anna said, it's a story that isn't over, until he's safely home.



"It's still a scary situation at this point, we're not 100 percent at ease by any means," she said.

Anna said Cole plans to be back in the states May 2, but it will all depend on if and when he can get a flight home, because the airport is packed with people flying in and out of Nepal.

She said she is thankful for all the support. In fact, she already took down a GoFundMe page they had set up, because they received at least half of the money they needed.
</text>