<url>
http://www.vosizneias.com/201622/2015/04/28/kathmandu-11-israelis-remain-unaccounted-for-in-quake-hit-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
11 Israelis Remain Unaccounted For In Quake-Hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese army personnel and a sniffer dog search for victims amidst the rubble of collapsed houses after Saturday's earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar

Kathmandu - Rescue efforts began Tuesday to extricate close to 80 Israeli trekkers trapped in remote areas of Nepal, which were hit hard by Saturday’s massive earthquake that devastated the Himalayan state.

Most of the trekkers can only be reached by helicopter. In the aftermath of the quake, all such helicopters have been in the hands of the Nepalese government and were not available to pick up the stranded Israelis who are in the area of Langtang and Mt. Everest.

Advertisement:

On Tuesday morning, Israel rescued 25 of the trekkers after it rented helicopters from India and China. The Harrel Insurance Company also managed to find two private helicopters which it used to pick up three Israelis from Langtang, after rescuing four in the Mt. Everest area on Monday.

The Nepalese army on Tuesday said it would make some of its larger military helicopters available to help Israel pick up the remaining 50 trekkers.

A number of the trekkers had sent messages to their families through a satellite phone to let them know they were alive but in distress and that food supplies were limited.

There were also some reports that they were in danger from locals in their area and that some violence had broken out between the two groups.

The issue came up at a meeting Tuesday morning in Kathmandu between the deputy chief of staff to Nepal’s army as well as the country’s head of intelligence with Yaron Meir who is Israel’s ambassador to Nepal and Mark Sofer, who is the deputy director-general of the Foreign Ministry’s Asia and Pacific Division.

It was agreed that the Nepalese army would help the Israelis in that area.

Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman spoke with his Nepalese counterpart Mahendra Bahadur Pandey and thanked him for military helicopters and for granting landing rights to the private helicopters which Israel had chartered.

Separately, an Israeli jumbo jet with some 216 survivors of the quake landed at Ben-Gurion International Airport on Tuesday. On the plane as well were infants who had been born to surrogate Nepalese women and their Israeli parents.

Since the quake, many Israelis have sought shelter in the Chabad House and the Israeli embassy in Kathmandu.

A second jet which Israel sent out late last night, landed in Nepal on Tuesday with some 260 soldiers as well as medical and rescue personnel to help the Nepalese victims of the quake.

Among the 95 tons of equipment that was on the two jets, was a field hospital which Israel began to set up. Its rescue teams are already in the field, including in the Langtang area where there focus is on helping Nepalese and other non-Israelis.

The Foreign Ministry is still searching for 11 Israelis who are unaccounted for. It assumes that these are trekkers or people in remote areas with no workable communication system.

Content is provided courtesy of the Jerusalem Post
</text>