<url>
http://www.redlandsdailyfacts.com/general-news/20150427/los-angeles-area-volunteers-head-to-nepal-to-aid-in-rescue-efforts
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Los Angeles-area volunteers head to Nepal to aid in rescue efforts
</headline>

<text>
As the death toll in Nepal continued to rise following Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude earthquake, scores of local authorities and volunteers continued to deploy to the South Asian country Monday to help in rescue and recovery efforts.

A 57-person task force from the Los Angeles County Fire Department was expected to arrive in Nepal sometime Tuesday, officials said, while four people with Team Rubicon, an El Segundo-rescue organization, was set to arrive around midnight Monday.

Meanwhile, three Pasadena firefighters were preparing to head to the region late Tuesday with a group from Reach Out WorldWide, a nonprofit relief organization founded by the late Paul Walker.

“I’m betting dollars to doughnuts that as this thing protracts and as the body count continues to rise you will start to see little splinter groups of firefighters that will rally together and start pulling their resources to deploy,” said Los Angeles County Fire Captain Roland Sprewell. “That is just what we do.”

Thousands of people were killed in the earthquake, which struck just before noon local time Saturday — just before 11:15 p.m. on Friday, California time. On Monday, the death toll soared past 3,700 with harder to reach mountain villages still unaccounted for two days after the disaster.

Los Angeles-area relief teams will be responding to the area with air and ground support, including 12 K-9 units from the county fire department.

The group from Team Rubicon, which primarily consists of military retirees who responded to the 2010 earthquake in Haiti and the typhoon-ravaged Philippines in 2013, will use Halodrop drones to “get an overhead picture of what the disaster zone is,” said spokesman Mike Lee.

The aerial views will allow workers on the ground to coordinate relief efforts, Lee said.

Fifteen more Rubicon volunteers were expected to depart in two groups, one late Monday and another Tuesday, to assist in the rescue effort.

“Their focus will be on medical and logistics, providing aid to those affected and helping any response,” Lee said.

Pasadena Fire Engineer David Marquez, who deployed with the nonprofit to Haiti, Chile, the Philippines and Alabama, is leading a 10-person task force from Reach Out WorldWide.

He said the group is scheduled to fly to south China late Tuesday and should be on the ground in Kathmandu by mid-Thursday.

From there, the group, which includes a doctor and several emergency medical technicians, will likely triage areas farther away from the earthquake’s epicenter to determine which villages need more resources.

“That’s pretty huge to be able to say, ‘Hey, this area needs more help than this area,’” said Pasadena Firefighter Paramedic Matthew Caffey. “It’s going to be a challenge that’s for sure.”

On Monday, Caffey packed equipment along with socks and Benadryl for the week-long trip — his first international deployment — noting that while he is trained to respond to natural disasters he doesn’t know what to expect.

“It’s an amazing opportunity to use those skills,” he said. “I definitely jumped on the opportunity to be able to get out there and do some real work.”

At the Himalayan Cafe , 133 E. Bonita Ave. in San Dimas, employees placed a box a few steps from the register where customers and others can drop in donations that will be turned over to the American Red Cross to assist with relief efforts for Nepal.

Customers “can help with whatever they can,” said Saroj Sodari, a resident of Alhambra who is the restaurant’s manager. “The whole country is in trouble now,” he said.

Sodari had been unable to reach his family members, who live in Gorkha in western Nepal, by phone during the weekend. Monday morning he was successful.

“I tried more than 100 times and finally I reached my wife,” Sodari said. “Now she is with her family and she is fine.”

Sodari’s mother and sister are also safe, he said, but he is still concerned because the homes of all three have been damaged by the earthquake and everyone is scared.

Debindra Ghimire, a resident of San Dimas, also works at the restaurant but as of Monday afternoon he still had not been able to get a call through to Kathmandu where his mother, seven siblings, his wife and 6-week-old son live.

“I have not contact with anybody,” he said. “Their number is disconnected.”

Through a friend he learned his family members were not injured but their home was damaged.

“I hope they are safe but I don’t know really,” Ghimire said.

Staff writer Larry Altman contributed to this report.
</text>