<url>
http://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/nepal-earthquake-firefighters-south-wales-9132925
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: Firefighters from Wales fly out to help rescue efforts
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Firefighters from South Wales have travelled to Nepal as part of international rescue efforts following the weekend’s devastating earthquake.

Six firefighters have joined more than 70 personnel from the UK’s Fire and Rescue International Search and Rescue (UKISAR) mission who flew out on Sunday.

Eight million people have been affected by the massive earthquake in Nepal, and 1.4 million are in need of food aid, the United Nations has said.

In pictures: Nepal earthquake aftermath

A government official said on Tuesday the death toll had risen to 4,310.

All Welsh people known to be in the area when the earthquake struck are believed to be safe.

A South Wales Fire and Rescue spokeswoman said the team of volunteers would assist local rescue efforts already underway.

“The firefighters from SWFRS are highly-skilled technical experts in Search and Rescue, who have taken part in previous international deployments such as New Zealand and Indonesia,” she said.

'Volunteers highly-skilled in rescue operations'

“The team, all volunteers, are ready for deployment at all times on behalf of the UK Government.

“The UKISAR team was deployed to Nepal on Sunday 26 April and flew at 9.15pm from Stansted airport in London.”

The 7.8-magnitude quake hit Nepal on Saturday destroying buildings in Kathmandu and severely affecting rural areas across the region.

International aid has started arriving but there is still a shortage of medical equipment, food and body bags.

'Our thoughts are will the people of Nepal'

Huw Jakeway, Chief Fire Officer for South Wales Fire and Rescue Service, said: “We are proud that firefighters from South Wales are willing and able to help and support the Nepalese people in this time of disaster.

“They are highly trained specialists, who will work closely with their Search and Rescue counterparts from across the UK.”

“The thoughts of everyone at South Wales Fire and Rescue Service are with the people of Nepal, with our expert team and with everyone supporting the international mission.”

Watch the terrifying moment avalanche hits Mount Everest:

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

The UK fire and rescue team were bound for Kathmandu on Sunday but heavy air traffic at the airport led them to divert to Delhi.

The crew arrived in India on Monday morning and are awaiting onward travel arrangements to Nepal.

“When they arrive in Nepal they will report into a reception centre and also an operational coordination centre to receive a briefing and be allocated their specific working locations,” the spokeswoman said.

A number of Welshmen were reported missing during the earthquake but it is understood they have contacted their families to let them know they are alive.

Jason Russell, 28, from Ruabon, his brother Darren, 26, and Daniel Hughes, 36, were all officially missing following Saturday's earthquake.

The trekking company they travelled with said the men's guide had been in touch to say they were waiting for a helicopter to fly them to Kathmandu.

Cardiff climber Mike Hopkins, 56, had reached Everest Camp 1 when the tremor struck but has contacted his wife to say he was safe.

Wife of mountaineer in Nepal talks of fear after quake:

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Ex-pat Huw Alexander Lashmar, who had been reported missing along with his son Jamie, has also been accounted for and is waiting to fly out of Nepal.

Another Welshman, 60-year-old Raymond William, who had initially been reported as missing, later indicated online that he was safe in Australia.

Adrian Summers, another Welsh ex-pat who now lives in Sydney, was also reported to be safe after initial fears he was missing.

And the family of Maurice Hanley from Swansea say he has managed to get a message through that he was safe.

Iestyn Richards-Rees, a Welsh climber bidding to be the youngest Welshman to conquer Mount Everest’s North Col route, contacted his mother on Sunday morning to let her know that he was safe.

Almost 8,000 people have been injured, home ministry spokesperson Laxmi Prasad Dhakal said.

Nepal and surrounding areas have continued to experience aftershocks. Water, food and electricity are in short supply and there are fears of outbreaks of disease.
</text>