<url>
http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2015/04/28/729540/10131307/en/Worldline-Provides-Free-Calling-to-Nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Worldline Provides Free Calling to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
CAMBRIDGE, Ontario, April 28, 2015 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Worldline, a division of Fibernetics Corp, is providing free long distance service to Nepal commencing today until May 15th 2015 for Canadians looking to get in touch with friends and family members who have suffered due to the earthquake that devastated that country. It's a simple process. First dial 844 44 NEPAL (63725) and then dial the destination number when prompted.

Dial 844 44 NEPAL (63725)



This will provide a free long distance connection to the Nepal destination number.*



"Our hearts go out to the people of Nepal and all those whose family and friends have been impacted by this disaster," said Worldline Co-Founder and Fibernetics President John Stix.



"With so many people out of contact, we hope just getting in touch with loved ones helps those who have lost so much. We also encourage all Canadians to help however they can."



Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake, centred outside the capital city Kathmandu, was the worst to hit the South Asian nation of 31 million in more than 80 years and has left thousands dead and many thousands more injured. One of deadliest quakes worldwide over the past 40 years, the tragedy is only compounded considering how badly prepared the mountain nation was for such an event. The total economic losses are projected to "exceed the GDP of Nepal."



It also struck at the worst time in the calendar year—just before the start of monsoon season. According to the United Nations, local hospitals are overloaded and "post-earthquake diseases are a concern," especially as thousands of survivors will now be exposed to the elements. Further, this earthquake is feared to be a lingering disaster, with landslides more common due to the unsettled terrain.



HOW CAN YOU HELP: The Canadian federal government will match -- dollar-for-dollar -- all eligible contributions to the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund until May 25, and retroactively to when donations first started streaming in on Saturday.



DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS

Doctors Without Borders, also known as Medecins Sans Frontieres, said four teams would leave Sunday morning for Nepal from Bihar state in India, where the charity has worked since 2007 and which is close to the Nepal border. The organization is also sending in 3,000 kits including medical supplies. To donate to Doctors Without Borders click here.



RED CROSS

The International Committee for the Red Cross says it is working with the Nepal Red Cross Society and has a team working on emergency response. To donate, call 1-800-418-1111 or click here.



OXFAM

Around the globe, Oxfam works to find practical, innovative ways for people to lift themselves out of poverty and thrive and help rebuild livelihoods when crisis strikes. To donate to Oxfam click here.



*Callers may be subject to any charges from their carrier and regular usage minutes may apply. All we ask is for callers to implement their own "fair use policy" and limit their call time, as we want as many callers to use this free service as possible. Also, as this is a free, it will not be a supported service.



About Worldline:



Worldline, the residential division of Fibernetics, provides high quality telecom products and services in the most cost effective way possible. Worldline's Unlimited High Speed DSL and Cable Internet, Home Phone, Long Distance packages and Bundle plans are specifically designed for hard working Canadians. As one of the fastest growing telecommunications companies in the country, Worldline is all about providing unlimited flat rate services with no mandatory contracts. Website: www.worldline.ca Twitter: @worldlinecanada



About Fibernetics:



Headquartered in Cambridge, Ontario, Fibernetics goes "Beyond Telecom" by providing superior products and services at the fairest prices to the Canadian market place with a singular focus on customer service in everything they do. Selected as a regional finalist in the Canada's Best Managed Companies program for 2014, Fibernetics has its own national infrastructure that delivers a full range of voice and data services for residential customers through Worldline and for business clients with the NEWT Business Phone System and Business Internet. Website: http://www.fibernetics.ca/ Twitter: @fibernetics

Media Inquiries: John Stix - President Fibernetics Corporation 519-489-6700
</text>