<url>
http://www.news.com.au/national/western-australia/families-of-jalada-wilson-raoul-poncin-and-rin-hutcheson-spend-fourth-day-waiting-for-news-after-nepal-earthquake/story-fnii5thn-1227324689156
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Perth teens Jalada Wilson, Raoul Poncin and Rin Hutcheson safe after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
THREE WA teenagers missing in Nepal since the devastating magnitudge 7.8 quake struck on Saturday have contacted their Perth families, saying they are alive and well.

The death toll has soared above 4000, with thousands more seriously injured and that toll looks set to rise even higher.

Jalada Wilson, 18, and Fremantle teens Raoul Poncin, 19, and Rin Hutcheson, 18, were last known to be in Langtang, a hiking area near Kathmandu when the quake struck on Saturday.

On Tuesday night, they made contact with their families, with Raoul’s dad Freddy Poncin posting on Facebook: “GREAT NEWS - GREAT NEWS. Raoul Poncin Jalada Wilson and Rin Hutcheson are safe but cant get out of the Langtang area. They are in a place called Syabrubesi and all roads are blocked. Soon they will be picked up!!

A very happy dad here!!! Thanks to all for your support!!!! Peace, Freddy Poncin”

— Missing in Nepal Facebook page

Jalada’s father, Ian Wilson, also confirmed the boys were currently stuck in Syahbrubesi.

“The boys are safe, they are stuck in Syahbrubesi due to road damage but are otherwise okay. We are very relieved,” Mr Wilson said.

“Rin’s dad took a brief call from him, just enough to say they are okay but need to wait for a helicopter out. We are trying to arrange one from Kathmandu.”

Jalada’s mother Ida Hamida had flown to Nepal to help try and track down the trio and provide another point of contact for the boys’ families in WA.

The whereabouts of Mitchell James Noga, 21, from Victoria Park, who last made contact on April 19, remain unknown.

It is now understood Shelly Ann Voigt, 54, who had not been heard from since the day of the quake, is safe and well.

Dozens of West Australians registered as missing by loved ones on a Red Cross website have since made contact with family and friends.

Theo Muller and his twin boys were not on the Red Cross list but Mr Muller contacted PerthNow on Tuesday evening to say they were safe and well.

Mr Muller said: “We were in the Kathmandu Radisson on Saturday when the quake hit. We made it out on Sunday via Silk Air into Singapore.

“We were so lucky to have just left Thamel, otherwise we would most likely be injured. Very harrowing.”

Lisa Anne Mirtsopoulos, 45, who was on the Monk for a Month tour, is still registered as missing but on Tuesday the company posted on Facebook that it believed all of its guests were accounted for.

Angus McDougal Caithness, 36, has also been reported by his trekking company as being safe at Mt Everest Base Camp.

Blake Penson, 34, managed to call his parents in Perth with a satellite phone from Mount Everest Camp 2, about 1000 metres above the first base camp, soon after the first tremor struck on Saturday.

His father Michael Penson said avalanches had destroyed the route between the bases but his son was OK.

photo gallery Fears for missing West Australians after Nepal quake STILL MISSING: Shelly Voigt, of Busselton, was in Nepal raising money for a medical clinic in the Annapurna region. Picture: Facebook STILL MISSING: Mitchell James Noga, 21, from Victoria Park. Picture: Facebook UNCLEAR: Bunbury trekkers Tanya Kaptein and Michael Barry are reportedly missing but they have not registered with the Red Cross. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: 18-year-old Jalada Wilson, 19-year-old Raoul Poncin and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson as they left Perth. MADE CONTACT: Brooke O'Keefe travelling in India. Image: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Claire Vanderplank, 33, of Fremantle. MADE CONTACT: Perth woman Brooke O’Keefe. MADE CONTACT: Perth climber Blake Penson, who was at Everest Camp 2, made contact with family after the first quake, but has not contacted them again. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Shannen Wynne, 20, hiking at Annapurna, just days before the earthquake and avalanche struck, with boyfriend Callumn Shally, 21. Picture: Instagram MADE CONTACT: Shannen Wynne, 20, with boyfriend Callumn Shally, 21 during their travels through India. Picture: Instagram A picture taken by Callumn Shally, 21, while trekking in Annapurna, Nepal. Pictures: Facebook Callumn Shally, 21, trekking in Nepal, but has contacted his family in Perth. Pictures: Facebook Callumn Shally, 21, trekking in breathtaking Annapurna, Nepal. He has contacted his family in Perth. Pictures: Facebook Callumn Shally, 21, trekking in breathtaking Annapurna, Nepal. He has contacted his family in Perth. Pictures: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Mt Lawley woman Billie Forder, 22, has been working as a volunteer in Nepalese orphanages. Billie has made contact with family and is safe, but is camping in a field to stay safe. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Karen Lee Jury, 44, was white-water rafting in Nepal when the quake struck and is safe. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Karen Lee Jury, 44, was white-water rafting in Nepal when the quake struck and is safe. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Gregory Kent, 63, of Sorrento, travelling with daughter Donna, has contacted family in Perth. Picture: Facebook MADE CONTACT: Torsten D'Scarlett has notified family that he is safe and well. Source: Facebook Shelly Voigt, Annapurna, Nepal Shelly Voigt, Annapurna, Nepal Shelly Voigt, Annapurna, Nepal Shelly Voigt, Annapurna, Nepal 1 of 23 HIDE THUMBS

TO BE CONFIRMED

Victoria Park university student Mitch Noga, 21, was registered as missing on a Red Cross website by his mother Sheryl on Tuesday.

Mr Noga’s last known location was Nepal’s second largest city, Pokhara, on April 19.

Michael Barry and Tanya Kaptein, from Lowden, about 40km south-east of Bunbury, are also reported to be missing, however they have not been registered with the Red Cross.

Father and daughter trekkers Gregory and Donna Kent were reported to have made contact with family in Perth on Monday night, however the pair are still listed as missing with the Red Cross.

ABC has reported Lisa Anne Mirtsopoulos, 45, who was on the Monk for a Month tour notified family she was safe, but remains listed as missing with the Red Cross.

Angus McDougall Caithness, 36, from Perth, last made contact on April 23, but is reportedly safe at Mt Everest base camp, according to his trekking company.

MADE CONTACT

Shelly Ann Voigt, 54, last made contact on April 25, but is now safe.

Jalada Wilson, 18,Raoul Poncin, 19, and Rin Hutcheson, 18, from Fremantle, contacted family on Tuesday night and are safe — they are unable to get out of the Langtang area.

Theo Muller and his twin sons were in the Kathmandu Radisson when the quake hit and managed to leave the country on Sunday.

Anna Speirs, 25, from Mosman Park notified family she was safe on Monday.

Teegan Wright, 21, from Fremantle has told family she is safe.

Luke Grieve, 33, from Bunbury was last at the Everest Base Camp and notified he was alive on Monday.

Michael Rummer, 23, of Fremantle had last made contact on April 24 via Facebook, he notified family on Monday that he was safe.

Couple Steven Robinson and girlfriend Jessica Chan have notified family they were all right.

Pam Lynch had been trekking at base camp and returned to Perth on Tuesday morning.

Fraser McKenzie, from Perth had been at Everest Base Camp and made contact with family on Monday.

Perth born, Cairns-based Torsten Michael d’Scarlett notified family on Monday night he was safe and well.

Claire Vanderplank, 33, of Fremantle got in contact with family on Monday.

Kamisha Skye Campbell, 25, and travel partner Adam Cleaver notified family and friends that they’re safe on Monday.

Taiwanese couple living in Perth Nini Tsou and “Big-Fish” Chao confirmed they are safe through Ms Tsou’s Facebook page on Monday.

Perth couple Sue and Geoff Roberts were among the first group of trekkers with World Expeditions to return on Monday.

Secret Harbour couple Adam and Tracey Powell were travelling in Kathmandu with Outfitter Nepal Trek Group, which has said the couple were safe.

Gidgegannup resident Cassandra Hare had been listed on the Red Cross register as someone in Nepal, but has made contact notifying she is safe.

Callumn Shally, 21 of Burns Beach and girlfriend Shannen Wynne notified family they were safe on Monday.

Ballantyne Forder and Karen Lee Jury also told family they were safe.

Blake Penson, 34, managed to call his parents in Perth with a satellite phone from Mount Everest Camp 2, about 1000m above the first base camp, soon after the first tremor struck on Saturday. His father Michael Penson said avalanches had destroyed the route between the bases but his son was OK.
</text>