<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/nepalis-in-south-korea/1812590.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepalis in South Korea raise donations as Seoul pledges aid
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese residents and natives in South Korea have organised relief efforts in the wake of the devastating earthquake that hit the Himalayan nation on Saturday (Apr 25).

SEOUL: The South Korean government has pledged US$1 million in initial humanitarian aid to Nepal.

Nepalese residents and natives in South Korea have also organised relief efforts, in the wake of the devastating earthquake that hit the Himalayan nation on Saturday (Apr 25). About 29,000 Nepalis live in South Korea.



Na Min-kyung - a Nepali with Korean citizenship - is worried about her parents. She is relieved to have spoken to her mother after the magnitude 7.8 earthquake hit her homeland on Saturday. But whenever she cannot contact either of her parents - she panics.



Na Min-kyung, a Nepali with Korean citizenship

Min-kyung said: "She says she can't go outside or listen out for what's happening. She has said not to worry because she is at a shelter and the family is well. But the phone keeps cutting off. So I'm sad."



Advertisement

Advertisement

The days after the disaster have been difficult for Min-kyung and her friends, who are worried sick about their loved ones back home.



Some 29,000 Nepalis live in South Korea. Most are migrant workers, students and women who have married Korean men. Many feel hopeless as all they can do for now is pray for the safety of their family members. They have also started to receive donations from friends, and to raise funds to help with relief efforts.



Binod Kunwor, head of Non-Resident Nepali Association of Korea, said: "We will gather all the donations and figure out a way to deliver them to Nepal as quickly as possible. After that, we will find ways to help with other things like electricity and roads that Nepal will need to restore later on."



Koreans have also initiated collections for earthquake victims - raising awareness among the Korean public about the post-quake situation in Nepal - and how they can help.



Meanwhile, the first team of about 10 personnel from the Korea Disaster Relief Team left late on Monday to assist in rescue and search operations in Kathmandu.



Members of Korea Disaster Relief Team left late on Monday (Apr 27) to assist in rescue and search operations in Kathmandu.

Head of the relief team Lee Il said: "We will work hard to ease the pain of the Nepalis. I will make sure that our rescue workers return home safely and without any injuries."



A second group of about 30 people are expected to leave on Friday.



Nepal is one of the favourite tourist destinations for South Koreans, especially among hikers. About 30,000 Koreans visit the country every year. But the South Korean Government has asked Koreans not to travel to country, at least for now.
</text>