<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/nepal-quake-singapore/1812054.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Quake: 89 Singaporeans, PRs evacuated with RSAF planes
</headline>

<text>
According to a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its crisis response team helped 89 Singaporeans and Permanent Residents leave Kathmandu on two RSAF C-130 planes on Tuesday afternoon. 74 of them landed in Singapore at 12.30am on Wednesday.

KATHMANDU: Three Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) C-130 aircraft have landed in the capital of earthquake-hit Nepal to assist with relief efforts. The planes had to be diverted to Indian airports on Monday due to congestion at the Kathmandu airport.

In a Facebook post at 4pm, RSAF said the team is working with Nepalese authorities to unload equipment and supplies at Kathmandu's airport. The RSAF added that a group of Singaporeans in Kathmandu will be flown home via the C-130s later on Tuesday. "We wish them a safe journey home," the RSAF said.

#NepalQuakeRelief Update: Our Singapore relief team is currently working with local authorities to unload their... Posted by The Republic of Singapore Air Force on Tuesday, 28 April 2015







SINGAPOREANS EVACUATED

According to a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its crisis response team helped 89 Singaporeans and Permanent Residents leave Kathmandu on two RSAF C-130 planes on Tuesday afternoon. The team is also working closely with SilkAir to secure seats for Singaporeans who wish to return home.

Mr Danial Phua, the leader of MFA's crisis response team said Kathmandu airport was very congested and flights were delayed on Monday due to inclement weather and heavy traffic.



Advertisement

Advertisement

"We organised the Singaporeans, helped them with their travel documents and updated them on departure details regularly. Our Singaporeans were very calm and patient, and kept their spirits up under trying conditions," he added.



At 12:30am on Wednesday, one of the C-130 planes touched down at Paya Lebar airbase, with 74 Singaporeans and PRs on board.





In a Facebook post on Tuesday evening, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said seeing the C-130 planes brought the Singaporeans and Permanent Residents who had been waiting to return home "instant relief".

"They happily boarded and are on the way back," Dr Ng wrote. "The first plane is expected to arrive in the wee hours of the morning, and I am sure that anxious relatives will be so glad to see their loved ones."



FB: C-130 with Singaporeans on board returns from Nepal



Dr Ng added that there are some Singaporeans in Nepal who have yet to be contacted, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its crisis response team in Kathmandu are working to reach them.

SAF, SCDF, SPF PERSONNEL TO HELP WITH RELIEF EFFORTS

Dr Ng earlier wrote on Facebook that about 80 men and women from the Singapore Civil Defence Force, the Singapore Armed Forces and Singapore Police Force will join other relief workers to assist Nepal.

"Different teams will have to work with each other and the local authorities to deliver help effectively," he said, adding that the Changi Regional HADR Coordination Centre advance team will work with the Nepalese Armed Forces to offer assistance in coordinating relief efforts.

Facebook post: Dr Ng Eng Hen on Singapore relief team in Nepal



"The scale of devastation is great but from all accounts, the people of Nepal have shown exemplary fortitude, bearing their suffering and loss with stoicism and dignity. We all hope that they will continue to find the strength to recover from this horrific earthquake," wrote Dr Ng.

"I am glad that our Singapore teams are on the ground to assist them in this difficult time."

SINGAPORE TEAM TENTATIVELY DEPLOYED TO SANKHU

The Singapore contingent will tentatively be deployed to a small village 15km from Kathmandu to roll out search and rescue operations.

The team is set to depart for Sankhu on Wednesday morning. It is understood the village is completely flattened, and that no other aid or rescue teams have reached there yet.


</text>