<url>
http://www.christiannewswire.com/news/987975960.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Reach Beyond Bringing Aid to Nepal Quake Victims, but Also Seeks to Keep Life-Saving Message of the Gospel on Air
</headline>

<text>
Reach Beyond Bringing Aid to Nepal Quake Victims, but Also Seeks to Keep Life-Saving Message of the Gospel on Air Contact: Darin Campbell, 512-785-8350



KATHMANDU, Nepal, April 28, 2015 /Christian Newswire/ -- While Nepal and the world at large are rightfully caught up in recovery efforts in the wake of Saturday's lethal, 7.8-magnitude earthquake, Reach Beyond (www.reachbeyond.org), is evaluating the most effective ways to provide immediate aid, and also leading efforts to help ensure the gospel continues to be proclaimed via the airwaves in the region.



Photo: Local residents cheer the opening of one of Reach Beyond's eight partner FM radio stations in Nepal. This station opened in 2010.



After centuries of being closed to Christianity, and with virtually no churches, Nepal has begun to open up to the faith. By 2010 there were more than 850,000 Christ-followers in nearly 10,000 groups. Community radio stations planted by local ministry partners and supported by the international media and medical mission agency, Reach Beyond, have played an important role in bringing the "good news" to the country. Eight FM stations, most of which are located near the epicenter of the quake, are now being assessed for what is expected to be extensive damage.



"We urge everyone first of all to pray for the suffering people of Nepal," said Wayne Pederson, president and CEO of Reach Beyond. "During the past few years we have seen an increased openness to the gospel. We hope we can continue to reach those that need to know Jesus by providing for their physical and spiritual needs, especially during this devastating crisis."



As the situation unfolds, Reach Beyond will raise emergency funds for an assessment team to evaluate how best to provide help in the recovery. After those needs are met, the overall condition of the partner radio stations will then be evaluated. Extensive rebuilding is anticipated.



In 2007, Nepal became more open to granting broadcast licenses to Christian community radio stations. Since then, Reach Beyond has partnered to establish eight stations, in addition to a birthing center in one community to minister to the physical and spiritual needs of the people.



Reach Beyond and its partners also have trained village health workers — especially in areas where no workers are available — to provide basic medical treatment. By demonstrating love for villagers' physical needs, they have gained opportunities to care for spiritual needs and communicate the saving love of Jesus Christ.



"Jesus' word to the disciples referenced in Acts 1:8 said they would be his witnesses 'to the ends of the earth,'" said Pederson. "As believers, and as a ministry, that remains our call and cause."



Donations to Reach Beyond to help those in need in Nepal can be made at www.reachbeyond.org/nepal.



Additional information about Reach Beyond and its efforts to plant radio stations around the world is available at www.reachbeyond.org.



For 83 years the passion of Reach Beyond (formerly HCJB Global) (www.reachbeyond.org) has been to make disciples of Christ. Using mass media, healthcare and education and working with partners around the world, Reach Beyond has ministries in more than 100 countries. The gospel is aired in more than 120 languages and dialects. Thousands of healthcare patients are meeting Jesus. Local believers are being trained as missionaries, pastors, broadcasters and healthcare providers.



To schedule an interview with a key leader from Reach Beyond, contact Darin Campbell @ 512-785-8350 or dcampbell@inchristcommunications.com.

Share Tweet
</text>