<url>
https://ca.news.yahoo.com/blogs/dailybrew/the-nepal-quake-lessons-for-canada-204854181.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
How Canada can improve its preparedness following Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
A resident tries to clear debris of his house at a village following Saturday's earthquake in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, April 28, 2015. REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui

With a death toll of at least 4,000 and widespread devastation, the initial response to last weekend’s earthquake in Nepal has been to rush aid to the Himalayan nation and its suffering people.

But what happened there can also provide lessons for Canada to deal with earthquakes in this country, especially when it comes to preparedness and ensuring older buildings can withstand the shaking.

The quake that struck Nepal registered as magnitude 7.8, with aftershocks as high as 6.7.

Although the region is in a zone known for large quakes, the weekend temblor reportedly was the strongest in 80 years. It was enough to crumble many older brick buildings in the capital, Kathmandu, and destroy a centuries-old tower that was a World Heritage Site.

“From what I’ve seen, this is a very sad illustration of why building practices are so important,” Alison Bird, a seismologist at Natural Resources Canada’s Pacific Geoscience Centre in Sidney, B.C., told Yahoo Canada News.

“The buildings there are not generally reinforced and so the death toll and casualty toll is far higher than it would have been had they had the same building codes and construction practices that we have.”

A large earthquake anywhere in the world sends psychological ripples to Canada’s West Coast, where residents have been warned for years to be ready for The Big One. Scientists say it is expected in the next century based on historical data.

According to Emergency Management BC, the province experiences an average 2,500 quakes a year. Many are felt but only a handful cause damage beyond some rattling chinaware.

By contrast, The Big One could be in the range of magnitude 9.0, more than 10 times as big as the Nepal quake. Depending on the location, it could cause widespread damage in southwestern B.C. to buildings and infrastructure such as roads, bridges, sewer, water and power supplies.

Related stories:



Earthquake-prone Canadians refuse to buy insurance doubting they’ll be hit, new poll reveals

Nepal earthquake: Rescuers worry, plan on flight to Kathmandu

Prayer flags a symbol of faith amidst Nepal earthquake’s destruction

Bird said the level of damage depends heavily on how deep the source of the quake is. Deep quakes give the seismic waves a chance to disperse and weaken as they’re transmitted up through the Earth’s crust.

Nepal quake was shallow, close to cities

In Nepal, it was shallow and quite close to population centres, resulting in more dramatic ground motion. Like many developing countries, concrete and brick are the main building materials because of their relatively low cost.

“They’re held up by gravity,” she said. “You’re just sort of stacking things like a house of cards, so when strong horizontal forces come from the earthquake it causes pancaking and fairly devastating damage, which is not what we would tend to see here.”

Modern buildings on the West Coast are built to withstand the shaking and swaying from a quake. But communities still have brick buildings dating from the 19th and 20th centuries. Retrofitting them is crucial, Bird said.

An important national museum in Kathmandu survived the quake virtually unscathed, while other old buildings around it were badly damaged, the scientist pointed out.

“So it really is a very strong indication that retrofitting does work,” she said.

The B.C. government has been criticized for not moving fast enough to implement its program to retrofit the province’s older school buildings.

Despite serious efforts at improving public awareness, including an annual province-wide earthquake drill known as the Great B.C. Shakeout, a lot of B.C. residents remain relatively complacent about the long-predicted disaster.

Regular polling finds most British Columbians believe the province will be hit by a major quake in the next 50 years and a majority think they’ll be personally affected. But that same majority admit they’re not ready – with no emergency survival kit designed to last the recommended three days without help and no plan for what to do in the event of a quake.

Quake awareness said to be growing in eastern Canada



That concern is even lower once you move to Canada’s other main earthquake zones, including the North, southeastern Ontario and parts of Quebec and the Atlantic provinces.

Quakes there historically have not been as large as on the West Coast but Quebec’s Saguenay region, near Chicoutimi, experienced a 5.9 quake in 1988 (anything above magnitude 5 is considered very strong), crumbling railway embankments and sending building brickwork into the streets.

Story Continues
</text>