<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/manawatu-standard/news/68097964/man-safe-after-tense-nepalese-bus-trip
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Whanganui man safe in Nepal after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Whanganui man safe in Nepal after earthquake

Stefan Grobecker

It was a tense three-hour bus ride for a Whanganui man who was travelling across a winding Manawatu Gorge-like road when the Nepalese earthquake hit.

Stefan Grobecker, 24, was travelling northwest towards Pokhara, in Nepal, from the capital city Kathmandu when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday.

The earthquake's epicentre was in Gorkha, just west of Kathmandu, and the death toll has climbed to more than 4000, with dozens also reportedly dead in China, Bangladesh, India and Tibet.

"The bus driver stopped and you could see the dust rising from the hills."

He said he had been told there were boulders the size of beach balls that had dropped in the area, crashing into cars.

"It was an experience, I'll say that."

Grobecker said he began receiving texts from friends straight away. "Before I could even get in touch with my parents."

Grobecker is scheduled to return to New Zealand on May 15.

He said he was trying to bring his flights forward, but would stay in Pokhara for the next couple of weeks. Pokhara wasn't too badly affected by the quake.

"There's no point in rushing back to Kathmandu."



He said the aftershocks were not very strong compared with ones he had felt in Christchurch.

New Zealand began its response to the quake by preparing its Urban Search and Rescue team, with members from Palmerston North being flown to Auckland.

But the USAR team was stood down on Tuesday after a decision from the Nepalese.

Meanwhile, the Palmerston North Red Cross is raising funds to be sent to help the relief effort.

Red Cross cultural worker Bikram Pandey, who is from Nepal, said the community was rallying to support their family and friends overseas.

"Red Cross has set up an online donation, but we are doing a bucket collection."

He said the Nepali-speaking population were going to collect from Wednesday until Saturday, walking around the centre of town.

The funds raised would then be added to the Red Cross's current fundraising effort, Pandey said.

Palmerston North was home to many Bhutanese refugees also, who had come from camps in Nepal, he said.

They were going to do some fundraising of their own, Pandey said.

Many family members and friends were still in the refugee camps.

"Most of them have lost their houses."

The Nepali-speaking community will then hold a candlelight vigil at 7pm on Saturday in The Square.

Red Cross humanitarian services manager Sonja de Lange said the community of about 400 refugees were very keen to help.

- Stuff
</text>