<url>
http://www.gazettenet.com/news/colleges/16678534-95/valley-residents-with-links-to-nepal-urge-help-for-relief-work
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
AMHERST — Kabindra Man Shakya, a Nepalese postdoctoral student at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, found out about the earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Valley residents with links to Nepal urge help for relief work

AMHERST — Kabindra Man Shakya, a Nepalese postdoctoral student at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, found out about the earthquake that devastated his country when he received a call from his wife’s family at 4 a.m. Saturday.



“At night when you get a call, you already know it is bad news,” he said Monday.



He learned the earthquake had happened two hours earlier.



Since then, Shakya has been glued to the news and attempting to reach family members. He has heard from his parents, who are safe but have been staying in tents on the streets since the earthquake, due to concerns about aftershocks.



Shakya lives with his wife, Utpala Shrestha, also of Nepal, in Amherst, but the rest of his family members live in Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital city, where many buildings crumbled in the magnitude 7.8 earthquake and subsequent aftershocks.



Some news agencies have reported more than 4,000 deaths associated with the earthquake. The number is expected to rise as relief workers make contact with remote, mountainside villages cut off by damaged roads.



Those in the Pioneer Valley who have connections to Nepal, either through family or through visiting the country, are trying to find ways to help the country and its people.



“It has been very devastating,” Shakya said. “The people are going through a lot of suffering.”



He said it has been difficult to get a call in to his family, and that he last heard from them Sunday.



“They are safe but they are scared to go inside,” he said.



Nepal is among the world’s poorest countries, already dependent on the international community for food and drinking water even before the earthquake, according to Shakya.



Shakya said he has heard stories of people suffering from illnesses such as diarrhea due to unsanitary conditions following the earthquake, and fears there is an overwhelming amount of work to do to help Nepal’s citizens.



Buildings he grew up near are now devastated, including a three-story temple called Kasthamandap in Durbar Square.



“The old school that stands there — I studied in that school for 10 years, which is five or six buildings next to that structure,” he said.



Often people would give blood in the temple, and Shakya said he feared that many people giving blood when the earthquake struck were trapped and killed in the building.



Shakya said he was meeting with others in the UMass community Monday afternoon to talk about the disaster and what action they might try to organize to bring relief.



He urged others to donate to organizations sending aid to the people of Nepal, including UNICEF, Oxfam, Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross.



Mount Holyoke College students organized a candlelight vigil for Nepal on Sunday evening. Hampshire College will hold a vigil at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday, according to an event created on Facebook.



UMass spokesman Edward Blaguszewski said there are 11 students from Nepal attending the university.



Kumble R. Subbaswamy, chancellor of UMass Amherst, wrote an email to the campus community inviting those affected by the tragedy to seek help through the international programs office, the center for counseling, the faculty and staff assistance program, the dean of students’ office and the office of religious and spiritual life.



“Our hearts go out to all of the people who have been affected by this disaster, including our own students, faculty and staff who come from Nepal,” Subbaswamy wrote in his message. “We want those students and community members to know we are here for them.”



He listed two dozen organizations accepting donations for Nepal, including The Salvation Army, MAP International, Save the Children, CARE, United Nations World Food Program, Global Giving, International Medical Corps, PayPal and Habitat for Humanity International.



A spokesman for the international programs office at UMass said the university currently has no students studying in Nepal.



Recent visitors



Northampton artist Edward J. Morét said he returned from Nepal three weeks before the earthquake struck.



Morét travels around the world to research his art and experience what he called “the wonders of the world.” He also tries to visit places he believes are affected by climate change, which is often the subject of his art. He was in Nepal for two and a half weeks.



He said he feels sad about the people of that country, and about the historic sites he visited.



Going inside some of the temples and viewing the magnificent architecture, he said, felt like going back in time.



“I feel very, very emotional,” he said. “These are relics of the past; these are incredible structures that will no longer exist for the world to see.”



He plans to donate to Save the Children to help children forced to live in tent camps or worse, he said.



Richard E. Peltier Jr., an assistant professor of environmental health science at UMass, has been to Nepal four times in the past 18 months to study air pollution in Kathmandu.



“Kathmandu is very impoverished,” Peltier said Monday. “They don’t have the resources to solve problems that come with this.”



Under the best of times, the country’s government has trouble providing electricity and water to its people, he said.



“The United Nations and outside aid agencies knew Nepal was at risk for this,” he said. “All the international agencies have moved in like wildfire and are doing the right thing.”



Peltier said he has reached out to eight or ten colleagues working in Nepal, but has only heard back from a few. Communication is difficult, and the few he has heard from contacted him by text message, Skype and email.



As far as the buildings are concerned, Peltier said he doubted many of the ancient landmarks would be rebuilt in the immediate future.



“It’s one of the poorest countries in the world,” he said. “I can’t imagine they are going to spend their pennies and dollars on that when they don’t have roads or water systems or electrical grids.”



Peltier called the devastation “heartbreaking,” and hopes relief efforts will continue past the immediate reporting on the event.



“Once these things go out of the news cycle they are forgotten about, but there are 30 million people who live in Nepal who won’t be forgetting about this anytime soon,” he said.



Dave Eisenstadter can be reached at deisen@gazettenet.com.






</text>