<url>
http://www.sunshinecoastdaily.com.au/news/three-sunshine-coast-residents/2622026/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
How Coast trio almost landed in Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
TROUBLE AHEAD: Deanne Singleton, of Valdora (pictured getting ready to trek to Everest base camp) was flying to Kathmandu when her plane was divereted as the quake tragedy (top left) struck.

TROUBLE AHEAD: Deanne Singleton, of Valdora (pictured getting ready to trek to Everest base camp) was flying to Kathmandu when her plane was divereted as the quake tragedy (top left) struck. Iain Curry

THREE Sunshine Coast residents were heading to Kathmandu on Saturday for the adventure of a lifetime - to climb Mount Everest for charity - when their plane was diverted.

Nick Woodhead, of Currimundi, and Tony and Deanne Singleton, of Valdora, would have had little idea at the time of how close they were to the epicentre of destruction.

A massive earthquake measuring 7.8 on the Richter scale had created havoc and devastation across the tiny nation of Nepal.

Already in Kathmandu awaiting the arrival of the climbers, who were due to head for Everest base camp on Sunday, were Brisbane couple Sharon and Allan Cohrs.

Sharon is the first breast cancer survivor to climb Mount Everest and, with her husband, the first Australian couple to make it to the top.

They created Everest One, a Queensland company specialising in mountain trek expeditions.

Climb for a Cause was their new fundraising initiative for Cancer Council Queensland.

Cancer Council Queensland CEO Professor Jeff Dunn said the charity was greatly relieved to confirm late on Saturday night that the Cohrs were safe and unharmed.

"They have been helping to source food and water purification tablets for locals camped around Kathmandu," Mr Dunn said.

"Their six Climb for Cause expedition members (three from the Coast) were in flight to Kathmandu but were diverted to nearby countries after the earthquake struck.

"We have offered them our full support.

"I have also conveyed our deepest sympathies to our friends at the Nepal Cancer Relief Society.

"The NCRS has long been a friend to CCQ.

"We have collaborated over many years on programs to improve cancer control in both our countries, as member organisations of the Union for International Cancer Control and the Asian Pacific Organisation for Cancer Prevention.

"This week we remain ready to assist the Climb for a Cause team and the NCRS as Nepal begins to recover and rebuild from this tragedy.

"While it seems unavoidable that our friends at the NCRS will know many people who have been lost or injured in this tragedy, we maintain hope for their welfare."

It is understood Mr Woodhead and the Singletons will return home later this week.
</text>