<url>
http://www.timescolonist.com/news/local/island-residentssafe-but-unable-to-leave-for-now-1.1866864
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Island residents in Nepal safe, but unable to leave for now
</headline>

<text>
A Cowichan Bay filmmaker is among hundreds of Canadians in Nepal who survived the catastrophic earthquake but are unsure of how and when they will get out.

“I’m relieved he’s OK, but there are other things. The communications and power are out, there are aftershocks and what about things like water?” said Cowichan Bay’s Elly Driessen, whose husband, filmmaker Nick Versteeg, is supposed to fly home from Kathmandu on Friday. Versteeg is one of nearly 500 Canadians registered as being in Nepal. “I’m worried and emotionally drained,” Driessen said.

A few weeks ago, Driessen and Versteeg were both in Nepal, where they did a five-week trek. Versteeg stayed to film charity work for a documentary, visiting schools and a dental clinic.

Driessen said Versteeg was at a Mount Everest base camp two days before the earthquake “completely flattened it.” He was in a nearby village when the shaking started about noon on Saturday, and was able to email his wife to say he was OK before Internet and cellphone communication started to fail and power went out.

“It was the scariest thing I’ve ever been in,” Versteeg wrote in an email. “We just had ordered lunch. When the shaking started, we ran outside and found an archway [to stand under]. …

“When we came back in the lodge after about 45 minutes, we found the entire ceiling had come down on the spot where we sat.”

Versteeg emailed on Monday that he had been taken by helicopter to a town called Lukla, where he hopes to catch a plane to Kathmandu.

Driessen said she has been in contact with the Department of Foreign Affairs to ensure her husband can get out of the country, but is not sure they can help.

“They said tell him to go to these websites, but there’s no communications,” she said. So, she’s co-ordinating with the airlines and hopes he’ll be in Vancouver when she plans to pick him up.

“I just want him to come home safe,” Driessen said.

Erika Van Doormal wants the same for her 22-year-old son, Keith Van Doormal, who was planning to head out of Kathmandu on a 200-kilometre trek when the earthquake struck.

She received a text from her son that said he was alive. “But he said, ‘I don’t know how I am going to get out of here,’ ” said the North Saanich resident. “That’s how he ended the email.”

Van Doormal said Keith and another friend were in a little mountain village when the quake hit.

“The earthquake struck and the buildings were collapsing on either side of him, so he dropped his pack and ran,” said Van Doormal.

Keith Van Doormal was one of at least two Saanich Peninsula young people known to be travelling through Nepal. The other, Jessica Payne, 22, a friend of Keith’s since high school, was elsewhere in the country. Van Doormal and Payne have been friends since they attended Stelly’s Secondary School together. Both completed an outdoor survival course at the school. They went to graduation together and have been near constant backpack travellers since, although not always together.

Payne’s mother, Catherine Stewart, said she spent all day Saturday worrying about her daughter. She heard from her by Sunday, around midnight.

“Jessica didn’t sound stressed when I talked to her,” she said. But “I still want her out of that area.”

Chris Considine, the Victoria-based honorary consul general for Nepal, has spent the past few days on the phone and email helping to connect Victorians with loved ones in Nepal and assisting those wanting to send help.

“So many Victorians have travelled to Nepal and have deep connections there,” said Considine, a lawyer who has been involved in Nepal since the 1970s. Since the earthquake, he’s been in touch with friends in the country who have their own source of power. “It’s absolutely devastating there. … This is the second-poorest country in Asia. It will take years to recover.”

spetrescu@timescolonist.com
</text>