<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-28/two-nsw-women-listed-as-missing-in-nepal-quake-may-have-survived/6426584
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Two NSW women listed as missing may have survived, trekkers airlifted out
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Two NSW women listed as missing may have survived, trekkers airlifted out

Updated

Two women from the New South Wales North Coast reported missing after the Nepal earthquake are now thought to have survived.

The Nepalese capital Kathmandu and surrounding areas were devastated by the 7.9-magnitude quake, which has killed more than 4,000 people with officials warning the death toll may rise.

John Seccombe from Casino on the NSW North Coast said his 25-year-old daughter, Ngaire, was trekking in the area with her friend Athena Zelandonii when the quake hit.

Ms Seccombe is still listed as missing on the international Red Cross register but Mr Seccombe said he received some "unconfirmed" good news this morning.

"We just heard via social media, through Germany I believe, that she's on a list of 84 survivors from about 15 nationalities sheltering in a hospital area in [the] Langtang area," Mr Seccombe said.

He said the family was alerted to a website that had a handwritten list of survivors that included the names of Ngaire and Athena.

"We were rung early this morning saying 'have a look at this site' because there was a hand-written note from people and it appears that the note might have been written by either her friend or Ngaire," he said.

It was a bit gut wrenching right at the start when you've got to list someone you love as missing in a disaster zone like that. John Seccombe, father of Ngaire Seccombe.

"One of them wrote it because they've both got funny names to spell... someone spelt the names correctly, put it that way."

Mr Seccombe described the list an "unconfirmed report" and that it's "early days", but said the family will be able to help their daughter out of the country once she contacts the Australian embassy in Kathmandu.

He said "it's a big relief" to hear the news of Ngaire and Athena named on the "survivors" list.

"It was a bit gut wrenching right at the start when you've got to list someone you love as missing in a disaster zone like that," he said.

Another NSW North Coast local Gordon Hume, 45, from Grafton, changed his missing status on the Red Cross register to "alive", at about 2:00pm yesterday.

Trekkers airlifted out avalanche affected area

Meanwhile, a team of trekkers from the NSW Mid North Coast who escaped the worst of the earthquake after turning back due to altitude sickness, have been airlifted to a nearby airport.

The 13 trekkers were at the Everest Base Camp shortly before the earthquake hit because some members had altitude sickness.

The earthquake caused a landslide that killed a number of people within the camp.

Late yesterday the team was taken by helicopter to the nearby Lukla Airport to wait a flight to Kathmandu.

Darren Wise from Peak Potential Adventures said the group is staying positive and once in Kathmandu, will look for a flight home.

"We have good guys over there with the trek, who understand this situation. They're trying to keep the morale and spirits high," Mr Wise said.



"We're going to be all pretty relieved when they get back in to actual Kathmandu.

"And then I think it'll be just a matter of re-organising their flights and talking to the airlines about what arrangements can be made to get them out, if at all possible."

A post on the Peak Potential Adventures Facebook page said the team trekked down a "steep and narrow" route from Namche Bazzar to Lukla, which had a "continued threat of aftershocks".

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, casino-2470, lismore-2480, coffs-harbour-2450, port-macquarie-2444, grafton-2460

First posted
</text>