<url>
http://www.seattlepi.com/local/komo/article/Seattle-teenage-trekkers-among-the-missing-in-6227546.php
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Seattle teenage trekkers among the missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Seattle teenage trekkers among the missing in Nepal

Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close Image 1 of 1

Seattle teenage trekkers among the missing in Nepal 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

Two young women from Seattle are among the people unaccounted for after this weekend's devastating earthquake in Nepal.

Bailey Meola and Sydney Schumacher, both 19, were trekking the Langtang Valley in Nepal when the earthquake hit, their families said Monday.

"We thought about altitude sickness. We thought about malaria. We thought about falling on a rock. We never -- in a million years -- would've thought about this," said Diane Schumacher, Sydney's mother. "It's been excruciating."

Both young women are described as experienced hikers, who began exploring the outdoors when they were toddlers. The teens are trained in first aid and CPR, their parents said.

"The odds of them being injured are very high if they were in Langtang, but people have survived in that area. They've gotten out of the avalanche," said Rachelle Brown, Bailey's mother. "We're just very optimistic. We think our girls have the resources. They have the skills. They have the experience."

Both girls are traveling around the world after graduating from Seattle's Garfield High School in 2014. Meola started her trip in Thailand earlier this year, also visiting Singapore, Cambodia, and Laos. She wanted to take a "gap year" and explore the world before heading to college, her parents said.

The families have turned to social media for help, hoping for word of the girls' safety through Twitter or other forums. They've been using a Facebook page for people missing in the Langtang Valley, along with a Google spreadsheet.

"You just have to keep your phone charged all the time, checking updates, checking pages, checking news reports," Brown added. "I've tried not to think too much about it in terms of wallowing in the worst-case scenario, but it's hard. We just want them to be safe."

Schumacher's older brother, Paul, did a similar trek through Nepal three years ago, which helped inspire his sister's trip.

"Out of any young women her age, Sydney has the skills to survive up there," Paul said. "She's been hiking around, trekking, since she was a tiny little kid. If anyone can do it, she can."

Both families have been in contact with the U.S. Department of State, along with other leaders, trying to get whatever help they can.

"There are villagers who are injured. There are travelers who are injured, and they're waiting desperately with no food and no shelter in many cases," added Diane Schumacher. "I've praying a lot. I'm not a religious person but I'm sending it out there all the time."

Schumacher last spoke with her daughter on a video chat from Kathmandu about a week before the quake hit.

"The phone conversation we had was really fun and joyful and happy," she added. "We reminded her to have fun and be safe."
</text>