<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/national/68101281/waikato-family-escape-nepal-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Waikato family escape Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Waikato family escape Nepal earthquake

Marie Richards-Hodge, Paul Hodge and friend Mingma Sherpa at Everest Base camp a week before the quake hit.

A Waikato family caught up in the devastating Nepal earthquake which killed more than 4000 people have managed to flee to India.

About one thousand people are camped out at Kathmandu International airport as aid pours in from around the world and foreign nationals struggle to leave.

Hamilton residents Paul Hodge and wife Marie Richards-Hodge and their two daughters Tash and Grace were shopping in the tourist area of Thamel in Kathmandu when the 7.9 magnitude quake struck about midday on April 25.

Minutes after the earthquake struck in Nepal, Dawa Sherpa tries to get in contact with family in Kathmandu.

They were just about to have a massage after achieving a trek to Everest Base Camp, along with friend, Nepal national and New Zealand resident Dawa Sherpa.

"We sheltered in a shop and then everything, the whole road was moving and there was bricks falling outside," Hodge, a former Kerikeri resident, says.

"It was very surreal. We weren't expecting that to happen. After the first quake all the locals went crazy, they started closing up their shops and moving away."

The family and Sherpa walked about one mile up the road and sat in a park with thousands of other terrified people.

They remained there for about five hours, while frequent aftershocks "rumbled and shook."

"It was pandemonium," Hodge says.

"There was screaming and yelling. The aftershocks were the hardest to deal with."

The Hodge's ventured back to their hotel, which was "significantly damaged", while Sherpa left in search of his family, of which most are living in Kathmandu.

Grabbing their belongings, the Hodges walked 10km to Budhanilkantah, north of the main city centre.

The walk through the streets was "like a war zone," Hodge says.

"It was getting dark. There was significant damage. Houses were black. We didn't see significant death but we saw the destruction."

With one blanket between four of them, the family huddled together on a performance stage in a hotel stadium with about 50 others.

There were many more aftershocks, including a powerful 6.7 quake that hit on Sunday.

"They were terrible, they were deep rumbling," Hodge says.

"Every time there was a shock people would run out from under the stage just in case it fell in."

Tens of thousands are sleeping outdoors in fear of continuing aftershocks.

There are shortages of water, food and electricity, and fears of outbreaks of disease as the monsoon season approaches.

Sherpa, from Kerikeri, has joined his two brothers, their wives, 18-month old son and younger sister near Boudhanath, Nepal's major Buddhist temple and one of the country's world heritage sites that were destroyed.

The family are camping in a paddock and making frequent trips back to his brother's house to get food.

Sherpa's parents and 82-year-old grandfather are in a small village called Teka, near Lukla, in the Himalaya.

Their house was destroyed, and they are also camped outside in freezing weather.

Sherpa, who is due to fly back to New Zealand on Friday, was nervous.

"So many aftershocks, many many aftershocks," he says.

"It's very bad.



"There are thousands of people camping around us, we are worried about disease."

Paul and Marie arrived in Nepal on March 31 to undertake a 15-day trek to Everest Base Camp to celebrate Marie's 50th birthday.

Around mid April they returned to Kathmandu where they met their two daughters, Tash, 28, and Grace, 22.

The family then planned to travel to India after a week of sightseeing in Kathmandu.

While their plans were delayed by a few days, the family feel extremely lucky.

They were at the Kathmandu's only international airport today, waiting to board a flight to Delhi. They are going on an Intrepid tour, before heading back to New Zealand.

"It's very crazy, a lot of people are sleeping here," Hodge says.

"They're in tents outside. There are 1000 people sleeping at the airport."

Even through the disaster and their suffering, Nepalese resilience and spirit is evident.

"People are very positive. Even at the airport, no-one's panicking, everything is orderly - as much as they can be."

Help needed

Non Resident Nepali Association of New Zealand has appealed for donations.

"We appeal to the government of New Zealand and individuals of New Zealand to come forward to save human lives by extending generosity to people of Nepal and other countries trapped in earthquake and earthquake driven avalanches," NRNA president Chakra Thapa says.

"We know New Zealanders are very generous and are opening up their hearts to support the victims of Nepal."

A bank account has been established to support earthquake victims.

Non-Resident Nepali Association NZ. Account Number: 12-3066-0148917-01.

- Stuff
</text>