<url>
https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/27464210/shock-of-quake-took-a-while-to-sink-in/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Shock of quake took a while to sink in
</headline>

<text>
Shock of quake took a while to sink in

Shock of quake took a while to sink in

When Oliver Brooke first felt the ground beneath him move violently up and down and side to side, making him lose his balance, he thought his mild altitude sickness had worsened.

But when the people around him started screaming and shouting the 25-year-old from Dalkeith quickly realised he was not the only one affected.

Mr Brooke was just hundreds of metres below Everest Base Camp near the Lobuche settlement when the deadly earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday, sending a wall of snow, rock and ice hurtling down on the camp.

He had planned to reach the camp the next morning but he and his Sherpa guide turned back after they realised the extent of the damage.

He and others had assumed the earthquake had only been felt in their immediate surrounds until they arrived in Lobuche that evening and got more information.

"Turning around, I saw my Sherpa guide crouched down, chanting for protection from Buddha," Mr Brooke said.

"The chanting mixed with the crashing sound of rock and stone roaring down the valleys either side of us was the most frightening."

He is now stuck in Lukla, a village perched high on a slope at 2800m that is considered the gateway to Mt Everest, until at least tomorrow as he awaits a flight to Kathmandu.

All West Australians believed to be in Nepal are now accounted for.

Mr Brooke told of his experiences from the dining room of the North Face Resort in Lukla yesterday, where he has been able to communicate with family and friends using the lodge's internet.

He said the fact that he was trekking with just a guide and a porter helped them descend quickly and safely after the earthquake struck.

While they had been one day out from the base camp when the earthquake set off the avalanche above it, there had been several other falls that had left debris all over the main trail.

"On the trail just north of Phaking at 2610m on April 27 we came across a 60m hole where the trail once was," Mr Brooke said.

"A huge avalanche had taken out that part of the mountain and we had to climb up near vertical slopes without trails to get around the hole.

"I was very nervous as an aftershock could easily have loosened the slope underneath me."

Mr Brooke is backpacking around the world with a friend and flew from Kathmandu to Lukla to start his trek to Everest Base Camp on April 19. He hopes to reach Kathmandu soon so he can travel to Pokhara to assist non-government organisation Karma Flights, which is providing aid to remote villages near the epicentre of the earthquake.

Aid has finally begun reaching remote regions devastated by the earthquake, which has left more than 5050 people dead.

Two Australian RAAF C-17 transport planes were in Bangkok awaiting clearance to fly to Kathmandu. It is expected to be granted for at least one of the planes today. The planes will deliver aid, then transport stranded Australians back to the Thailand capital of Bangkok, from where they will have to find their own way home.

Several days after the earthquake it is feared that search-and-rescue efforts have now switched to a recovery mission.

One man was pulled from a collapsed apartment block in Kathmandu on Tuesday after he had spent about 80 hours in a room with three bodies.
</text>