<url>
http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2015/apr/28/texas-mom-anxiously-awaits-return-of-daughter-from/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Texas mom anxiously awaits return of daughter from Nepal
</headline>

<text>
MERIT, Texas (AP) - In earthquake-ravaged Nepal, Danielle Banks waits in the relative safety of the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu.

Her mom finds much comfort in that.

But The Dallas Morning News (http://bit.ly/1Ac9doG ) reports Sharon Banks said she won’t be completely free of the anxiety that has gripped her until her daughter arrives at luggage claim at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport on Saturday.

“It’s still not there all the way,” Sharon Banks said Monday, “not until I get her home, not until I can touch her.”

Her daughter, 22, who graduated from Texas A&M; University in December, was on Mount Everest when an earthquake struck last weekend, leaving thousands dead and triggering an avalanche.

Though Danielle Banks was able to make it off the mountain Monday, dozens remain stranded there and at least 18 people died in the area around the base camp. She had gone to Nepal last month to work with a group combating human trafficking.

“She likes doing things to help people,” her mom said. And she has a fearless streak - which explains how the Allen High School graduate found herself on the world’s tallest mountain for the second time in two weeks.

“She tried to climb (to the base camp at 17,700 feet) the week before and she couldn’t get acclimated to the elevation,” Sharon Banks said. “So she went back again a week later.”

Danielle Banks and a new friend, named Olivia, were at the base camp on Friday night, when Danielle Banks last texted her mom.

“She would text me every night - that was the deal,” Sharon Banks said. “The earthquake hit Saturday morning - Friday night here - and that was the last I heard from her until Sunday night.

“The last text (before the earthquake) was, ‘I’m trekking out,’ and then a little later, ‘Oh my God, I just witnessed an avalanche.’”

As soon as Sharon Banks heard about the earthquake, her motherly concern ratcheted up to panic mode.

“I sent her a message as soon as I heard, and I didn’t hear back,” she said. “And all that kept going through my mind was ‘Did she get swept off the mountain? Will they ever find her body?’

“Of course she isn’t going to admit that any of this scared her.”

Actually, by the time the earthquake hit, triggering the avalanche on Everest, Danielle Banks and Olivia, who was suffering badly from altitude sickness, were already well below base camp and moving steadily down.

“She met Olivia trekking - she’d only known her for six days,” Sharon Banks said. “They made their way down to a village called Namache (Bazaar), and that’s where they were airlifted from.”

But first, mother and daughter traded a long series of texts, their only means of communication. Sharon Banks wanted her daughter home, immediately.

“And she wasn’t even fazed by this,” the mom said. “She said there were a lot of people hiking down. But I told her she had to find a doctor or medical person for Olivia. She was really sick.”

Sharon Banks made the arrangements for the two young women to be airlifted to Kathmandu through travel insurance company World Nomads Travel Inc., “and a wonderful guy there named Mike - he was holding my hand over the phone the whole time.”

“I told him, ‘If they call again and they need a helicopter, you’d better damn well go get her,’” Sharon Banks said, “and he said, ‘If you can get her to Namache, we can go and get her.’”

The flight cost $3,500 and had to be paid for upfront, Sharon Banks said. That wiped out both travelers’ credit cards, but Sharon Banks wouldn’t entertain any arguments.

“She was supposed to fly out on the 11th (of May) and be here on the 12th,” Sharon Banks said. “She asked, ‘Shouldn’t I stay here to help with the relief?’ And I said no. She already put me through torture this week.”

And when Danielle Banks assured her that they could make their way back to Kathmandu without being airlifted from Namache Bazaar, the mother’s reply was firm.

“Your life is worth more than money,” she told her daughter. “Take the helicopter and get to the U.S. Embassy.”

“They’re there now and safe,” she said. “And Olivia was so sick, bless her heart.”

Olivia’s condition is improving. And by the weekend, Danielle Banks will be home again, in time to celebrate her 23rd birthday on May 5, her mom said.

She flies from Kathmandu to Doha, Qatar, then boards a jet that will carry her to DFW airport in 16 hours.

When Danielle Banks walks through the doors to baggage claim, her mom and her boyfriend will be waiting for her.

And after that first long hug, Sharon Banks will finally be able to relax.

___

Information from: The Dallas Morning News, http://www.dallasnews.com
</text>