<url>
http://www.nbcrightnow.com/story/28912897/local-man-was-on-the-phone-with-his-mother-in-nepal-while-the-earthquake-was-happening
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Local Nepalese Group Still Needs Your Help - NBC Right Now/KNDO/KNDU Tri-Cities, Yakima, WA |
</headline>

<text>
MORE:

RICHLAND, WA- As more and more disturbing and sad images come to us from Nepal, many in our community are doing whatever they can to help.

The Nepal Quake Relief Effort from Southeastern Washington and Northeastern Oregon is trying to pull together an effort to help those in the country, right from our backyard.

One woman who just came back from Nepal described to NBC Right Now about the chilling memory of the quake she will never forget.

Rama Upadhyay said the ground started to sway slowly back and forth, she says no one knew what to do. She and others wanted to run away but couldn't move. She ended up staying in a tent until she could find her passport and plane ticket, as she was suppose to come back to Richland that weekend.

Her son Piyush who was on the phone with her during the quake translated for her. She said, "She quickly went into the home and got the passport and the ticket, put it on her chest and slept with it. So the next day she was able to get a little bit of luggage out, most of it, and she came here," said Piyush Upadhyay.

A fundraiser and candlelight vigil was held Wednesday evening in Howard Amon Park but if you were not able to make it, you can still help by clicking here.

Nepal's prime minister believes as many as 10,000 people could be dead from this devestating quake.





PREVIOUS:





RICHLAND, WA- The aftermath continues to get worse in Nepal after Saturday's earthquake and a local group reflects on the situation and how they can help out.The death toll is more than 4,000 people as of Monday afternoon. A local group called Nepal Quake Relief Effort: Southeast Washington and Northeast Oregon raised funds Sunday to help their family and friends in Nepal. One organizer said he was actually on the phone with his mother, who is in Nepal, when the ground started shaking.It started as a normal phone call Piyush Upadhyay made to his mother who lives in Nepal. It was Friday night in the Tri-Cities and Saturday afternoon in Nepal. It started off well."Suddenly she started screaming saying, 'oh it's a quake!,'" said Upadhyay about his mother on the phone.The call disconnected. He thought maybe it was a just a small earthquake, but he soon found out it was a 7.9. For a few hours, he knew nothing about his family's safety. He talked with them Sunday and Monday."To know that they are now safe and the earthquake is slowing down a little bit is a little bit reassuring," said Upadhyay.For every death, there are two injuries from this earthquake. Upadhyay said his family has seen a lot of that."A lot of fear in mind and having seen so much death and the destruction is pretty bad," said Upadhyay.Sign Fracture Care International, based in Richland, makes supplies and implants for patients with fractures in countries in need. They have supplies ready to go to Nepal, even with travel being so chaotic."We are in contact with the international section of our shipper and they assured us they can get the supplies in," said Dr. Lewis Zirkle, President and Founder of Sign Fracture Care International.For now, the local Nepalese group hopes their efforts to help from a distance, will go a long way, but they know it will not happen overnight."I think it'll take years, if not decades to get some level of normalcy back," said Upadhyay.The local group helping out Nepal said they will be back at Howard Amon Park Wednesday evening fundraising and they plan to have a food truck serving Nepalese food sometime in the near future.Here is a link to their Facebook Page where they will post more updates and links to donate online To help out Sign Fracture Care International, here is their link.
</text>