<url>
http://www.fortmorgantimes.com/fort-morgan-local-news/ci_28000685/avoid-nepal-earthquake-relief-scams
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Avoid Nepal earthquake relief scams
</headline>

<text>
Better Business Bureau offers tips, accredited charities list

The earthquake and aftershocks that have hit Nepal in recent days left nearly 4,000 people dead as of Monday afternoon and caused massive destruction.

It's only natural and human after a disaster like that to want to help those in need, but that's also when scammers see an opportunity.

The Better Business Bureau Wise Giving Alliance on Monday released some tips for how to donate to relief efforts in Nepal.

"The news out of Nepal is horrific and the photos are heart-breaking," said H. Art Taylor, president and CEO of the BBB Wise Giving Alliance. "People want to help as soon as possible, and that is wonderful, but donors need to follow some key rules about supporting disaster relief so that their gifts get to those who need them most."

• If donating online, watch out for spam emails or messages that claim to be from a relief organization. Instead, go directly to an organization or charity's website.

• Expert opinions are good for making decisions about donations. Third-party recommendations may not be so good. Do some homework on the organization or charity before sending money anywhere. One place to check is give.org, which will tell if an organization if accredited by the BBB and meets the "20 Standards for Charity Accountability."

• Do not trust assertions that 100 percent of donated money will go to victims and relief efforts. Credit card transactions generally include a processing fee, and there may be other fees or administrative expenses taken out of donations.

Advertisement

• Look into the charity further to find out whether there is a presence in the affected area or if another organization may be better able to help immediately.

• Check out whether the organization is collecting aid for direct help or if the donations to that organization will be funneled to another group. If possible, avoid donating to middlemen and give to a group that directly impacts relief efforts.

• If looking to give clothing, food or in-kind donations, verify whether this is needed for this relief effort or if that type of gift would better benefit those in need closer to home. Make sure the organization receiving the donation will be able to transport and distribute it properly.

There are a lot of organizations and charities that will look to gather donations for Nepal earthquake relief. Being cautious and aware before giving money or other goods can mean the difference between helping people and lining the pockets of a con artist.

Some of the charities and organizations accredited by the BBB as able to properly assist Nepal earthquake relief efforts include: ActionAid USA, Adventist Development and Relief Agency International, American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, American Jewish World Service, American Red Cross, AmeriCares Foundation, Brother's Brother Foundation, CARE USA, Catholic Relief Services, Church World Service, Concern Worldwide US, Direct Relief, Global Impact, GlobalGiving Foundation, Habitat for Humanity International, HOPE worldwide, Humane Society International, International Medical Corps, Islamic Relief USA, Lutheran World Relief, MAP International, Medical Teams International, Mercy Corps, Operation USA, Oxfam America, Plan International USA, Project Concern International, Salvation Army (National Corporation), Save the Children Federation, Seva Foundation, SOS Children's Villages-USA, United States Fund for UNICEF, World Food Program USA, World Neighbors, World Relief, World Renew and World Vision.

Jenni Grubbs: jgrubbs@fmtimes.com, Twitter @JenniGrubbs or tout.com/jennigrubbs
</text>