<url>
http://theviewspaper.net/why-science-and-indian-ministers-dont-get-along/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Why Science And Indian Ministers Don’t Get Along
</headline>

<text>
Remember Sakshi Maharaj? Yes, the same person who urged every Hindu woman to produce at least four children, is now back with a bang. This time around, however, he has given us a clear sneak peek into his intellect.

In the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that put Nepal in shambles, Sakshi Maharaj, the genius, came up with a theory that no scientist could have ever imagined. While talking to reporters in Haridwar, he said, “Rahul Gandhi eats beef, and goes to the holy shrine (Kedarnath) without purifying himself. The earthquake was bound to happen.” Connecting Congress’s Vice President, Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Kedarnath with the temblor that shook not only Nepal but parts of India too, derides the suffering of all those who have fallen victim to the disaster.

Whether an earthquake is a consequence of Mother earth’s rage towards us, humans or not, is a no brainer. Earthquakes are usually caused when the when an underground rock suddenly breaks along a fault line. As an educational site for budding seismologists states, “This sudden release of energy causes the seismic waves that make the ground shake. When two blocks of rock or two plates are rubbing against each other, they stick a little. They don’t just slide smoothly; the rocks catch on each other. The rocks are still pushing against each other, but not moving. After a while, the rocks break because of all the pressure that’s built up. When the rocks break, the earthquake occurs. During the earthquake and afterward, the plates or blocks of rock start moving, and they continue to move until they get stuck again.”

Sushmita Dev, a Congress spokesperson retorted to Maharaj’s statement by saying, “If media reports are to be believed, BJP leader and MP Sakshi Maharaj, now famous for asking women to produce 10 babies, eulogising the killers of Mahatma Gandhi and comparing humans with dogs for sterilisation, is now ascribing the earthquake in Nepal to Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Bhagwan Kedarnath.” Accusing BJP for communalizing and politicizing a grave human tragedy, she added, “It will be better if the PM and Amit Shah stop perpetuating rabid politics that has now reached the stage of denigrating even Bhagwan Kedarnath through his chosen cohorts. We demand that the PM and Amit Shah take immediate action against Sakshi Maharaj.”

Sangeeta Purkayastha

Image Source: The Viewspaper

Share :
</text>