<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3058314/UK-sends-Gurkhas-disaster-zone-Nepalese-engineers-help-relief-effort-earthquake-leaves-4-000-dead.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
UK sends the Gurkhas into Nepal to help relief effort after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Britain is sending a team of Gurkha engineers to Nepal to help the relief effort after the earthquake at the weekend left more than 4,000 dead and thousands injured.

The Gurkhas will join humanitarian volunteers and emergency service crews from the UK who have already begun search-and-rescue operations in the stricken Himalayan state.

They are flying out in a RAF C-17 transport aircraft packed with vital emergency supplies, including more than 1,100 shelter kits and 1,700 solar lanterns.

International Development Secretary Justine Greening said the Government would also match the first £5 million made in public donations to the Disasters Emergency Committee's Earthquake Appeal.

Scroll down for video

A Nepalese solider helps a child injured in the earthquake, pictured as they wait to disembark from an Indian Air Force helicopter at the airport in Kathmandu

'A swift and effective UK response to the Nepal earthquake means help is already reaching all those affected by this terrible disaster,' she said. 'But as the devastating scale of the crisis becomes clearer, we are stepping up our efforts.'

It came as rescue teams were last night desperately searching for survivors amid the devastation of Kathmandu.

Rescuers have still not reached even higher mountainous regions, where villages have been destroyed and survivors are living in the open. Aid agencies say they fear the eventual death toll will exceed 10,000, with more than 7,000 injured.

'Villages are routinely affected by landslides, and it's not uncommon for entire villages of 200, 300, up to 1,000 people, to be completely buried by rock falls,' said Matt Darvas, spokesman for aid agency World Vision.

A toddler is carried to safety by an Indian Air Force worker after the child and its mother were evacuated from a remote area

A medical officer from the Chinese People's Liberation Army offers physical check-up and treatment to injured locals in Jilung County of Xigaze City, Tibet

'A man evacuated by helicopter said almost every home in his village of more than 1,000 houses had been destroyed.'

Amid urgent appeals for more international aid, the Queen sent a personal message of condolence to Nepal's people, saying: 'I was shocked to hear of the appalling loss of life and injuries caused by the earthquake. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this disaster and with those bereaved.'

Meanwhile, the Foreign Office urged Britons to avoid 'all but essential travel' to Nepal, and anyone who could leave the country safely 'should do so'.

Absolutely Fabulous star and Gurkha campaigner Joanna Lumley will today make an appeal on all major UK broadcasters on behalf of the DEC, which represents Britain's leading charities.

The Gurkhas are flying out in a RAF C-17 transport aircraft packed with vital emergency supplies, including more than 1,100 shelter kits and 1,700 solar lanterns

Aid agencies say they fear the eventual death toll will exceed 10,000, with more than 7,000 injured

She said: 'Like so many others watching the shocking images from Nepal over the last few days ... my thoughts are with all those struggling to survive. The Nepalese are a resilient people but this catastrophe has hit them very hard. They're desperately in need of life-saving help and I hope people in the UK will support us.'

Unicef said an estimated one million children have been 'severely affected' by the earthquake, with thousands living in the vast tented cities that have sprung up around Kathmandu, where cold, wet nights have added to the misery.

With shortages of water, food and electricity, disease has become a major concern. Bodies have been piled at roadsides and a series of mass cremations have taken place next to the Bagmati river which divides Kathmandu.

More than 1,000 people died in Kathmandu and with aftershocks continuing to hit Nepal, tens of thousands are trying to leave the city rather than risk living in weakened buildings or sleep on the streets. Roads leading out of Kathmandu were yesterday jammed with people, some with babies in their arms, trying to board buses or hitch a ride in cars to the plains.
</text>