<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/world/nepal-quake-aid-agencies-ready-but-help-still-needed-2015042813
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Aid agencies ready, but help still needed
</headline>

<text>
Aid agencies on the ground in Nepal say they were well-prepared for a natural disaster, but the scale of the devastation caused by the weekend's earthquake has them on the back foot.

The 7.8-magnitude quake struck just before midday on Saturday, and has been followed by a number of aftershocks measuring above 6, sending people fleeing into the streets and living out in the open.

The official death count so far is above 4300, but that's expected to rise in the coming weeks as aid workers reach remote villages.

"In my lifetime, I've not seen anything like this," UNICEF Nepal communications officer Rupa Joshi said on TV3's Paul Henry programme this morning, speaking from Nepal via phone.

Nearly half the districts in the capital of Kathmandu have been deemed "highly affected", and it could take weeks to survey the damage in the outerlying villages.

"These are mainly mountain districts, where access even in normal times was a challenge," says Mr Joshi. "Trying to reach these villages… is a huge, huge problem."

READ MORE: How to donate to the relief effort in Nepal

World Vision New Zealand chief executive Chris Clarke says his organisation fears the death toll will end up much, much higher.

"We've got teams going out today into the more remote regions – I think it's going to take us a couple of weeks to get a full sense of the scale of the disaster," he said.

"Some of these villages you can only fly to – and in many cases you fly to the airport, and then you hike for another 12, 14, 15 hours."

Aside from the logistical issues, both UNICEF and World Vision say they were ready to respond.

"We've been on the ground there for 33 years, so our warehouses were full," says Mr Clarke.

"The great advantage we had was that straight from basically as soon as the earthquake struck we had food going out, we had water going out, we had tarpaulins going out, sanitation supplies going out. A big plane flew in last night from Dubai with more supplies."

"Because Nepal is prone to disasters UNICEF does have prepositioned stock, so it was able to release that immediately to the government, and to all the other partners who are working together," says Mr Joshi.

Mr Clarke says it would be better for New Zealanders to contribute cash rather than goods, so World Vision can acquire exactly what's needed on the ground. Nepalese airports are already having to turn back planes full of supplies due to congestion, and it would be a waste to have planes full of unneeded items to cause further delays.

"We know what to do. We do this all around the world. This is a big one."

Jitendra Bothara, a Nepalese seismic engineer who now lives in Christchurch, believes the country's poor building stock has contributed to the high death toll.

He says they always knew a big quake would come, the only question was when – and blames "policymakers and technocrats" for not implementing building codes he helped develop.

"Building qualities are bad. We knew the problem – but the problem is the building quality. If you look at the casualties and injuries, they're mostly coming from building damage and destruction. If you look at the problem, all the problems are coming from the buildings."

Experts in Nepal actually expected a bigger quake, he says, so the country was lucky in that respect.

But the quake could have a bigger impact than just the immediate death toll. Much of the country's income comes from tourism, but many of its iconic sites have been badly damaged or destroyed.

"People come to Nepal to see these World Heritage sites and these unique pieces of architecture and heritage," says Mr Bothara.

"I think that will affect significantly the Nepalese economy."

Read More

3 News

source: newshub archive
</text>