<url>
http://www.watoday.com.au/wa-news/nepal-earthquake-perth-families-desperately-waiting-to-hear-from-loved-ones-20150428-1mu44n.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Perth families desperately waiting to hear from loved ones
</headline>

<text>
A number of WA families are clinging to hope their loves ones are still alive after a magnitude 7.8 earthquake rocked Nepal, killing more than 3,100 people.

About a dozen West Australians are still missing after a devastating earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Have made contact since the earthquake: Shannen Wynne (top left), 20, Karen Lee Jury (top right), 44, Blake Penson (bottom left) and Callum Shally, 21, (bottom right).

Brooke O'Keefe

Shelley Packard has been desperately trying to get hold of her daughter Brooke O'Keefe, who is one of 15 West Australians believed to be in the area when the quake hit.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Brooke O'Keefe, who is still missing after the earthquake, had spent the last two years volunteering in orphanages in Nepal and India. Photo: Supplied

Ms O'Keefe, 31, who had spent the last two years volunteering in orphanages in Nepal and India is one of 15 West Australian's still missing.

Ms Packard told ABC Radio on Monday morning a woman in Kathmandu had posted on Facebook she'd seen Brooke a day before the earthquake.

Advertisement

"She was seen with a guy called Ravi, she has been with him for a week," she said.

"There is this amazing woman called Angela, who has been doing a lot of work finding people... she has lots of friends in Kathmandu and she knows Ravi very well.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Ballantyne Forder with children from an orphanage.

"She was speaking to Ravi on the phone - he said he'd been with Brooke, but didn't see her yesterday or the day of the quake, but then phone cut out.

"There has been no more communication since. It's been very frustrating."

Ms Packard said the family had been trying to make contact with Brooke through her Facebook friends.

She said the family last heard from Brooke last week when she was heading towards Kathmandu to meet friends.

"She's has been travelling for nearly two years," she said. "She has been travelling in NZ, Cambodia, India and Nepal

"The last time she was home was when her sister's twins were born in July."

Ballantyne Paige Forder

Another Perth volunteer - Ballantyne Paige Forder - who had been working at an orphanage in Kathmandu has been found alive.

Ms Forder's father Ben told Radio 6PR on Monday morning the family got a phone call from a friend of his daughter's on Sunday.

"A lady contacted her from London and she was able to get "Billie"... she had a mobile but limited signal so she only said a few words," he said. "Then this lady rang us and said she was alive. Thank God."

Ms Forder's sister Amanda-Sue Markham then took to Twitter, to say Billie had been found, following her desperate pleas for help over the past few days.

She tweeted: "My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety."

Mr Forder said the family still hadn't spoken to Billie.

"But there has been contact and we do know she is alive," he said.

"It's all up in the air and we still have to get her to safety.

"She still needs to be rescued... she is camping out with her orphans, which will need care.

"And she wouldn't want to leave them without care."

Mr Forder said even if rescue crews found Billie she might not want to leave.

"It will be hard," he said. "I was speaking to the government department and they said we have got to try and locate her, and what's the story with getting her back if she doesn't want to come back?

"She won't want to leave the kids. She is pretty attached to them. "

It was the second piece of good news for Western Australian families desperately trying to get information from loved ones stuck in the region.

Blake Penson

Blake Penson, 34, managed to call his parents in Perth with a satellite phone from Mount Everest Camp 2, about 1,000 metres above base camp, soon after the first tremor struck on Saturday.

But his father Michael Penson said they have not heard from him since and are concerned because aftershocks and avalanches have destroyed the route between the bases.

"They can't climb up and can't climb down," Mr Penson said.

He is considering flying to Nepal to find his son but the Department of Foreign Affairs has told him the country is in chaos - no power, no communications and road blocks everywhere.

Shannen Wynne - Callumn Shelley - Karen Lee Jury

Callumn Shally, 21, Shannen Wynne, 20, and Karen Lee Jury, 44, are among those from WA who have been able to get in touch with family back home.

Ms Jury's mother Heather said it was a huge relief when Karen, who had been volunteering in the Mustang District near Kathmandu, messaged her on Facebook on Sunday.

"She was actually river rafting when it happened and they spent the night on the banks of the river," Ms Jury said.

"She's staying there, she's not even going to try and get into the city for a couple of days.

"It was a huge relief, we always hoped for the best but not knowing where she was, was the worst."

As many as 350 Australians remain unaccounted for however, as the search continues.

The West Australians still missing:

Brooke O'Keefe

Angus McDougal Caithness

Anna Barbara Speirs

Jalada Wilson

Rin Hutcheson

Raoul Ponchin

Luke Grieve

Scott Daniel Stuart

Michael Barry

Tanya Kaptein

Michael Rummer

- with AAP
</text>