<url>
http://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2015/apr/28/new-york-nepalese-community-fundraising-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
New York City's Nepalese community rushes to aid: 'That's the power of Nepal'
</headline>

<text>
The 10,000-strong community in the Jackson Heights neighbourhood of Queens has been inundated with donations despite many who work low-wage jobs

Outside the Sherpa Collections mobile phone store in the Jackson Heights neighbourhood in Queens, 32-year-old Penrachhewang Sherpa was piling up dozens of boxes of clothes, blankets and medication.

The store basement was so full that the Sherpa temple around the corner had opened its canteen to house the donations for survivors of the Nepal earthquake. Packages have flooded in from the Nepalese community around the US, with boxes from Boston, Philadelphia, Jersey City and beyond arriving throughout the day.

“We’ll try to get it there as soon as possible,” says Penrachhewang, who plans to fly the shipment to Kathmandu where representatives from Heart Beat, an aid organisation, will look to distribute them to those left homeless by the earthquake that struck the nation’s capital and remote villages stretching miles from the epicentre in the Gorkha district. On Tuesday, the Nepalese prime minister, Sushil Koirala, said the death toll could exceed 10,000 people.

For Penrachhewang the frantic fundraising was both a duty and a distraction. Like many in New York’s Nepalese immigrant community, he has many relatives back in Nepal. So far he has been able to contact his brother, but has had no word from his mother.

“What can I do?” he said. “I tried to call her many times.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Penrachhewang Sherpa in the basement of Sherpa Collections phone shop where bags and boxes of donations are being stored. Photograph: Oliver Laughland for the Guardian

Census data suggests about 10,000 Nepalis live in New York, but residents in Jackson Heights, where a blossoming Nepalese community has evolved over the past 10 years, estimate that number could be five times larger.

A thousand people, mostly from the Nepalese community, attended a vigil in Queens on Sunday where over $20,000 was raised in aid for victims of the earthquake. At the Sherpa temple, worshippers are being asked to donate half their weekly salary, and there is a steady flow of people who arrive to place cash into the donations pot overseen by the monks who run the temple.

'No one has come': Nepal villagers wait for aid to flow beyond the capital Read more

Tashi Sherpa, a 34-year-old Uber driver, had just made his second donation in 24 hours. He handed over $101, saying it’s Sherpa tradition to gift an uneven amount.

“Everybody is pouring their heart out right now, because that’s the power of Nepal,” he said. “We know how life is in Nepal. It takes very little to make the sun shine and be happy.”

Many of those Jackson Heights Nepalis work blue-collar jobs. Case workers at Adhikaar, an outreach collective a few blocks from the Sherpa temple, say wage theft and poor working conditions are a common experience for many Nepalese immigrants in New York.

But Raji Manjari Polchrel said it was often the poorest in the community who were most generous with their donations to the earthquake victims back in Nepal. Adhikaar have raised $15,000 in less than 24 hours.

She cited the case of two gas station workers who have been fighting wage theft for years, but continue to send money home to their families in Nepal to build new homes for their relatives.

One of the newly constructed properties was damaged in the earthquakes. It had been completed only a few months ago, said Polchrel.

“There’s that dream of working in America, even though there’s wage theft and abuse at work, you don’t tell your family, you send them money and make a home in Kathmandu. You go to America to take care of your family,” said Polchrel.

Polchrel’s own family are currently camped out in Kathmandu. She provides them with regular updates on the situation there over text message, often getting news to them before they are able to find it themselves.

For Narmrata Pradhan, 48 and another of Adhikaar’s all-female staff, the distance from family was overwhelming. A phone call had just come in from Nepal informing the staff another shockwave was felt throughout the city.

“I’m shaky, I’m getting so nervous,” said Pradhan. Her mother, who suffers from arthritis and heart problems, has been without without medication since the earthquake. Neighbours have placed her in a car away from the family home, which has already been damaged. Her sister is trying to make it back to Kathmandu but is currently stranded in Delhi.

“My uncle, my mum’s brother, he was not able to run from our house. After I go home, I don’t know how many family members I will see,” she said, before breaking into tears.
</text>