<url>
http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/573463/Nepal-earthquake-Rivers-alight-hundreds-funeral-pyres-babies-flown-Israel
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Rivers alight with hundreds of funeral pyres as babies flown to Israel
</headline>

<text>
AP•REUTERS Family members have been cremating bodies since the earthquake shook Nepal

Heartbroken families are cramming into any space they can find along Kathmandu’s Bagmati river to hold Hindu cremation ceremonies for their loved ones. Meanwhile babies born to Nepalese surrogate mothers for gay Israeli couples have been flown back to Tel Aviv. White acrid smoke can be seen drifting across Nepal’s capital as grieving families carry out their sacred send-offs shoulder to shoulder with other distraught gatherings. The bodies of those pulled out of the rubble are carried through the streets covered in gold and orange cloth as they are taken down to the ghats (or steps) where they are placed in pyres lining the river and set on fire. Since the 7.8 magnitude earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday, 500 bodies have been arriving at the Hindu Pashupatinath temple every day, rather than the usual 30.

AP Flames rise from burning funeral pyres during the cremation of victims

AP The death toll could rise to 10,000

REUTERS Family members stand next to the burning pyre of a relative

All around us, small buildings were collapsing and people were terrified Yossi Filiba

The city is also running out of wood, with each rite using as much as 250kg. A witness told Indo-Asian News Service: “People are conducting the last rites wherever they can and without following the proper rituals.” So far 4,300 have been confirmed dead, but today Nepal’s prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could reach 10,000. So far about 25 babies recently born to Nepalese surrogate mothers for gay Israeli couples have been airlifted to Tel Aviv by the Israeli air force. Some mothers have also been rescued. Many gay couples travel to Nepal to use surrogate mothers because the procedure is limited to homosexual couples.

AP Nepalese relatives carry the body of an earthquake victim for cremation in Kathmandu

REUTERS Israeli men carry their babies off a plane after being airlifted to safety in Nepal

REUTERS Israel began evacuating infants born to surrogate mothers yesterday

They often stay in Nepal for a month for their child’s birth and to arrange the transfer of their baby home. Yossi Filiba, a single father from Tel Aviv, had travelled to Nepal three weeks ago to welcome his daughter Na’ama. He and other Israeli couples and their babies had to shelter in a building when the earthquake hit. He was feeding his daughter when disaster struck. He said: “I grabbed the baby, ran down three floors and out to open space. All around us, small buildings were collapsing and people were terrified.” He said on Sunday he feared they would run out of water before they were rescued.

REUTERS Israeli Ohad Chitman is greeted by his mother after being evacuated from Nepal

REUTERS Many Israeli male couples have fathered children with the help of surrogate mothers in Nepal
</text>