<url>
http://www.mlive.com/news/ann-arbor/index.ssf/2015/04/ann_arbor_nepali_community_rai.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Ann Arbor Nepali community raising funds for earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
The Ann Arbor Nepali community watched in horror April 25 as a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck the country that straddles the Himalayan Mountains between India and China.

As the death toll has steadily risen and rescuers continue to search for survivors, Pem Sherpa, co-owner of the Himalayan Bazaar gift shop, 218 S. Main St., Ann Arbor, said the local community has been mobilizing to do what it can to help. The United Nations says 8 million people have been affected by the weekend earthquake in Nepal and 1.4 million people are in need of food assistance.

A hastily arranged rally was held outside the bazaar Saturday and Sunday evening, with the goal of raising money for those most affected by what has been described as Nepal's worst earthquake in 80 years. Passers-by donated more than $2,400, Sherpa said, and that the broader Ann Arbor community has been very supportive.

"We just set up a table in front of the Himalayan Bazaar and were asking people to donate money. Some people were holding signs," he said.

"And people would stop and talk to us and donate, even some people if they stopped at the traffic light near the shop would reach out and donate money while they were stopped."

Sherpa came to the United States in 2005 after reaching the summit of Mount Everest and getting married on the mountain's slopes. He arrived in Ann Arbor in 2011 to help open the Himalayan Bazaar on Main Street with Heather O'Neal.

"My whole family is still in Nepal. My brother, sister, mother, father, everyone," he said.

"They are all safe and doing OK. The house they live in was damaged, but because it [the earthquake] happened in the daytime, everyone was able to run outside and get to a safe place."

The Nepali community in Ann Arbor is about 40 or 50 people, Sherpa said. To the best of his knowledge, no one from the community lost close relatives in the disaster.

"So far from what we've heard everyone's immediate family is OK," he said.

"I didn't hear anything too bad at the last fundraising event from anyone about their families. But right now people can only reach their immediate family because it's so hard to make contact with anyone."

Additional organized fundraisers are organized for Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights at the bazaar, but donations are welcome at any time.

The community has not decided yet whether they will contribute the money to an organization working in Nepal or look to put the funds more directly in the hands of Nepali people working to rebuild their homes and communities.

"We are working together and trying to figure to the best way that the money can have the best impact," Prem Bhandari said.

"I have been talking with friends and family back in Nepal. There are so many rural areas where the government and the NGOs have not been able to reach yet. I'm trying to see how we can send relief packets directly to those places."

Bhandari also said the Ann Arbor Nepali community has started to consider balancing the need for short-term relief and long-term aid in their home country.

"They need things like food and medicine right away, and we want to help them get that," he said.

"But there are also so many schools and hospitals that have been damaged, especially in rural areas. The amount we've collected so far is small, but if we could focus our contribution to helping rebuild a school or something like that it would be a major long-term contribution."

Marin Clark, a geomorphologist at the University of Michigan, released a study Tuesday showing that tens of thousands of locations in Nepal remain at risk for landslides in the coming months.

"The majority of them, we expect, have already happened and came down all at once with the shaking on Saturday," she said. "But there will still be slopes that have not yet failed but were weakened. So there will be a continued risk during aftershocks and with the recent rainfall, and again when the monsoon rains arrive this summer."

Ben Freed is a general assignments reporter for The Ann Arbor News. Email him at benfreed@mlive.com and follow him on twitter at @BFreedinA2. He also answers the phone at 734-623-2528.
</text>