<url>
http://www.thespec.com/news-story/5589606-canadian-stranded-in-nepal-says-ottawa-not-doing-enough-to-bring-citizens-home/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Canadian stranded in Nepal says Ottawa not doing enough to bring citizens home
</headline>

<text>
Emilie-Anne Leroux said that while other countries have pulled out all the stops to get their citizens home, she and other Canadians haven't received so much as a phone call from officials despite having registered as being in Nepal.

Leroux, who is in Nepal working for the International Organization for Migration, says that's left some people feeling neglected and "very panicky."

"I feel like they haven't reached out any type of support or help," she said from the UN House in the capital city of Kathmandu, where a handful of Canadians have been staying and helping to co-ordinate aid efforts.

"It's just frustrating — compared to the Australian Embassy, who have booked hotels, picked up people at their apartments, helped them get their (stuff) out and fly them home if they want to, I think the Canadian government is showing a very poor example of how much it cares for its citizens who choose to work abroad for development."

Nicholson said consular officials are trying to get into the country to help, but they are having difficulty getting in.

"We have an honorary consul I know has been working on this consistently since this tragedy has taken place, (and) we're making every effort to bring in consular officials as well," Nicholson said.

"They have made two attempts to land at the airport in Kathmandu and on both occasions they have been turned away, but we are determined we are going to get them there."

Foreign Affairs said there are 462 Canadians registered as being in Nepal, but cautioned that's only an estimate because registration is voluntary.

Leroux, 28, was trying to get back to Canada to be with her father, who is having heart surgery, when the earthquake hit. The airline could only rebook her on a flight Wednesday and she can't afford an earlier, pricier ticket.

Kenney said once the C-17 is relieved of its load of supplies, it would remain in the area to ferry Canadians who want to leave Nepal to nearby India. But that wasn't expected to happen until late Wednesday at the earliest.

A spokesperson for Foreign Affairs said the government's Emergency Watch and Response Centre in Ottawa and Canadian offices abroad are working with local authorities and providing consular assistance to Canadian citizens.

To date, the department has deployed six additional people to the affected region, although they have been unsuccessful so far in reaching Kathmandu, said Nicholson.

"But they are going to get there."

Officials from Canada's sparsely staffed consular offices in Nepal were also continuing attempts to reach Canadians believed to be in the area, he added.

The Ontario government, where members of the legislature held a moment of silence to honour the victims, also added $1 million Monday to the Red Cross's relief efforts in Nepal.

Some Canadians are still anxiously awaiting news of relatives they hope survived the devastating quake. But others, like Faye Kennedy's family, have had long-awaited reassurances.

The Ottawa woman was trekking in Langtang National Park and hadn't been heard from since the earthquake. But her brother-in-law said Monday that Kennedy had been found.

"She is alive, was airlifted from Langtang National Park because of injuries, and is now in Kathmandu," Justin Piche said in an email. "We think she will be okay."

The Canadian Press
</text>