<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-28/nepal-earthquake-survivors-frustrated-by-slow-govt-response/6426282
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Survivors express frustration at government's slow response to growing crisis
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Survivors express frustration at government's slow response to growing crisis

Updated

Some of the tens of thousands of people stricken by the massive earthquake that hit Nepal on the weekend are expressing frustration at what they say is the government's slow response to the crisis.

Many in the stricken capital, Kathmandu, spent another night in the open after the massive magnitude-7.9 earthquake, which killed more than 4,300 people and triggered avalanches on Mount Everest.

International aid has finally begun to arrive in the Himalayan nation of 28 million people, but with fears rising of food and water shortages, people were rushing to stores and petrol stations to stock up on essential supplies such as rice and cooking oil.

Officials said 4,310 people were known to have died, making it the quake-prone nation's deadliest disaster in more than 80 years.

More than 90 people have been killed in neighbouring India and China, while a further 7,953 people were injured in Nepal.

Senior disaster management official Rameshwor Dangal said the toll in Nepal could jump once rescuers discovered the full extent of devastation in villages.

"Rescue operations are underway, and in many places where buildings have collapsed there might be people trapped," Mr Dangal, the home ministry's national disaster management chief, said.

With aid slow to reach many of the most vulnerable, some Nepalese were critical of the government.

"The government has not done anything for us," Anil Giri, who along with about 20 volunteers was looking for two of his friends presumed buried under rubble, said.

"We are clearing the debris ourselves with our bare hands."

Nepalese rescuers were being joined by hundreds of foreign aid workers from countries including China, India and the United States.

Crews trying to rescue those trapped in the rubble of high-rise buildings in Kathmandu were being hampered by a lack of specialised equipment, the army said.

Australia, Britain and New Zealand said they were sending specialist urban search-and-rescue teams to Kathmandu at Nepal's request.

Nepalese officials acknowledged they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster.

"The big challenge is relief," chief secretary Leela Mani Paudel said.

"We urge foreign countries to give us special relief materials and medical teams. We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis."

Over 1,150 Australians accounted for as 'safe and well'

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said over 1,150 Australians in Nepal had been accounted for, and were "safe and well".

She said consular officials were providing assistance to the family of Melbourne woman Renu Fotedar, who was killed in the earthquake.

Ms Bishop said the Government would help Australians trying to leave Nepal if they were unable to get a commercial flight out of the country.

"Should people not be able to obtain a commercial flight home, they should contact the Australian embassy in Nepal," she said.

"We will have an air force plane taking humanitarian supplies over, so it can take Australians to Bangkok where they can get a commercial flight home if they're unable to get out of Nepal."

Families who work in Kathmandu were packing onto buses — some sitting on the roofs — leaving the city, many for their home villages to determine the damage there.

Mothers clutching children and men hauling bags were seen bargaining with drivers of the many buses clogging the roads out of the capital.

Britain is sending dozens of Gurkhas — Nepalese soldiers who serve in the British army — to their homeland to assist relief efforts, along with supplies and shelter kits.

UN World Food Program spokeswoman Elisabeth Byrs said the agency would launch a "large, massive operation" with the first plane carrying rations set to arrive today.

Pledging $US10 million in relief to help the victims, US secretary of state John Kerry said he had been shocked by the "gut-wrenching" images of the death and destruction.

More equipment, supplies needed for rural areas

Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport was hobbled by many employees not showing up for work, people trying to get out, and a series of aftershocks which forced it to close several times since the quake.

Home minister Bam Dev Gautam was supervising aid delivery and arranging for passengers to leave the country.

Fears were rising of a disease outbreak in the multitude of tent camps that have sprung up around the city.

A government official said tonnes of clean water and other essential supplies were needed for survivors as well as stepped-up search and rescue efforts outside the capital.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

"We need more helicopters for our rescue operations in rural areas," home ministry spokesman Laxmi Prasad Dhakal said

The quake triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest which buried part of base camp in a cascade of snow and rock, killing at least 18 people Saturday on the world's highest mountain.

Rescue helicopters today airlifted climbers from higher altitudes on the mountain where they were stranded above crevasses and icefalls.

Scores of seriously injured climbers were evacuated from base camp on Sunday.

Reconstruction efforts in impoverished Nepal could cost more than $US5 billion, or around 20 per cent of the country's GDP, according to Rajiv Biswas, Asia Pacific chief economist at business research firm IHS.

Nearly a million children living in affected areas are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance, UNICEF said.

Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with morgues overflowing and medics working flat out to cope with an endless stream of victims suffering trauma or multiple fractures.

The quake's epicentre was about 73 kilometres east of the town of Pokhara, the country's centre for adventure sports.

Nepal and the rest of the Himalayas, where the Indian and Eurasia tectonic plates collide, are particularly prone to earthquakes.

A magnitude-6.8 quake hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people, and a magnitude-8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and India in 1934.

AFP/Reuters

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, relief-and-aid-organisations, nepal, asia

First posted
</text>