<url>
http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/thousands-take-part-candlelit-vigil-nepal-earthquake-disaster-londons-trafalgar-square-1498809
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Thousands take part in candlelit vigil for Nepal earthquake disaster at London's Trafalgar Square
</headline>

<text>
London's Nepalese community led a mass tribute on Tuesday night, as a large banner reading "Pray for Nepal" was set up in the centre of Trafalgar Square.

The event, organised by representatives from London university Nepalese organisations including students from University College London, LSE and Imperial, were raising funds for the post-disaster relief and recovery effort.

Most recent estimates from Nepal say the death toll from Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake has now passed 5,000.

Britain's Nepalese community held prayers at London's Trafalgar Square for those affected in the devastating earthquake which has killed over 4,000 people in Nepal.

"We want to share our prayers for the safety of the people who are affected by the earthquake in Nepal," a spokesperson said, adding that they are encouraging people to donate solar and wind-up torches which would be sent to Nepal.

The Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) has asked the UK public to pledge funds to help its members reach families left homeless by the devastating quake.

Actress Joanna Lumley has fronted a televised appeal for donations following the Nepal earthquake which has killed more than 4,300 people.

The appeal asks for financial support from the public to help the thousands of people left homeless without food or water.

She said in a DEC televised appeal: "Nepal is a beautiful country with an ancient culture. Two thousand years of history has been razed to the ground in minutes.

"The earthquake may have lasted little more than 60 seconds but the impact will be felt here for years.

"The emergency is now and the need for help is desperate. Nepal's few hospitals have been overwhelmed with those injured treated in the streets.

Humanitarian organisations from around the globe are providing food, water and other aid for the eight million people affected, say the UN.

A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said the Queen would be financially supporting the appeal and a Clarence House spokeswoman said the Prince of Wales and his wife will donate an undisclosed sum.

The 89-year-old monarch has donated personal money to the Disasters Emergency Committee's appeal to help the victims of the devastating natural disaster.

Nepalese officials said as of Tuesday evening that the death toll "could rise to 10,000" and between 17 and 22 people had been killed in avalanches on Mount Everest, which happened as a result of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake.
</text>