<url>
http://www.thenewsteller.com/world/7-9-magnitude-earthquake-hit-nepal-caused-nearly-100-lives-so-far/13795/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
7.9 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal caused nearly 668 lives so far
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU: The latest reports says that more than 668 people have lost their lives in the wake of 7.9-magnitude earthquake that hit the capital and the Kathmandu Valley on Saturday afternoon.

Advertisements



The powerful earthquake caused damage on a large scale with toppled walls and collapsed buildings.

No sooner the calamity took place, than dozens of people with injuries were being started bring to the main hospital in central Kathmandu.

A number of buildings collapsed in the heart of the capital, including centuries-old temples, as said by residents of the area. They also witnessed people running through the streets in panic.

Ambulance sirens boomed and government helicopters hovered overhead. Meanwhile, national radio warned people to stay outdoors as more aftershocks are likely to blow again. It is also asking citizens to keep calm.

Nepal’s Information Minister Minendra Rijal told media that there are reports of damage in and around Kathmandu but no instant word on casualties. He said that rescue teams were seen rescuing on the spots.

“We need support from the various international agencies which are more knowledgeable and equipped to handle the kind of emergency we face now,” Information Minister Minendra Rijal.

Advertisements



According to the US Geological Survey that revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9, said the quake hit at 11:56 am local time (0611 GMT) at a shallow depth of 11 kilometres.

The earthquake-shocks have also been felt in India’s capital of New Delhi and in Pakistan as well.

Pakistan’s Prime Nawaz Sharif, who is in London on an official visit, has expressed his ‘deep shock on the reports of a colossal earthquake that has caused annihilation in Nepal and Northern India this morning,’ said a statement issued by the foreign office.

The statement also said, ‘the Government of Pakistan and its people extend their heartfelt condolences and sympathies to the government and the citizens of Nepal and India on the catastrophe that has tool valuable lives and properties.’

“The government and people of Pakistan express solidarity with the affected people of Nepal and India and offer all possible aid that may be needed in their hour of grief.”

Moreover, the early reports also say that airport of the capital of Nepal also faced damages. It is thought to be the worst earthquake to strike Nepal since the devastating one in 1934, which all but destroyed Kathmandu.
</text>