<url>
http://www.peoplesdailyng.com/nepal-earthquake-world-to-the-rescue/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: World to the rescue
</headline>

<text>
Share This





















By Ese Awhotu

In the immediate aftermath of the powerful earthquake that hit Nepal on 25 April, the United Nations and its partners are scaling up operations while trying to get a comprehensive picture of the damage to address the most urgent needs.

The efforts are however, challenged by strong aftershocks and widespread rains and thundershowers which will likely hit the country for a while and could seriously hamper relief efforts.

One of the priorities remains saving the lives of the survivors. To this end, an UNDAC team has been deployed to set up an On-Site Operations Coordination Center (OSOCC) with the primary goal to coordinate search and rescue efforts.

A number of International Search and Rescue (SAR) teams have been deployed and have begun operations including from India, Pakistan, China, and Israel. A UK SAR team of 90 personnel is expected to have arrived in Kathmandu on Monday, according to the UN.

An American medical team consisting of eight personnel already stationed in Nepal has already been deployed, UN said.

As feared, the death toll has rose to over 5,000 deaths, with almost 10,000 people injured, which continue to strain the national health system. While the main hospitals in Kathmandu are still standing and functioning, although overloaded, some damage has been reported to hospitals in Ramechap, Nuwakot, Sindhupalchowk. In Gorkha, damage is very severe but it remains unclear whether hospitals continue to be operational.

The World Health Organization (WHO) said it is deploying an emergency team to help address the most urgent health issues, including post-earthquake diseases, and has prepositioned surgical kits which are now being distributed. The World Food Programme (WFP) is also on the ground, providing food items and trucks for distribution.

“Towards evening, hospitals were trying to accommodate a huge influx of patients, some with amputated limbs, and were running short of supplies like bandages and trauma kits”, said Jamie McGoldrick, UN Resident Coordinator in Nepal. “Water supplies, a problem under normal circumstances in this fast-growing city, will almost certainly run short”, he said. “Search and rescue personnel will face the challenge of reaching villages nearer the quake’s epicenter, about 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu, where damage may be catastrophic. A full-scale assessment is not yet complete, but this was a particularly large earthquake and a very shallow one so we are expecting high and significant damage, especially in Lamjung, Gorkha district (the epicentre of the earthquake).”

The UN is expected to soon issue a Flash Appeal to mobilize donors support in order to be able to quickly address the most urgent needs.

WHO is surging additional medical supplies and health workers into the earthquake-affected region to help the Government of Nepal provide rapid medical assistance to the thousands who have been injured inSaturday’s disaster.

“WHO has deployed eight more emergency health kits containing essential medicines, disposables and instruments to cover the health needs of 80 000 people for the next 3 months,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region. “An additional 5 emergency health kits are being flown in along with surgical kits and trauma bags to meet the immediate health needs. There is an urgent need to replenish medical stocks to support the emergency response efforts.”

In addition, WHO is working in collaboration with Nepal’s Ministry of Health to coordinate the arrival and deployment of the medical teams coming from other countries and nongovernmental organizations, commonly called foreign medical teams (FMTs). As of today, at least 20 foreign medical teams have offered support to the country and have registered with WHO. The first teams are expected to arrive in Kathmandutonight.

“Each team that has registered is committed to ensuring that the Nepalese people impacted by this disaster will get treated by the most appropriate health workers and equipment,” says Dr Ian Norton, head of the WHO FMT initiative. “Such support is essential in this early phase of trauma care. Every hour counts with trauma care. The response is time critical.”

Some 30 of Nepal’s 75 districts have been impacted, with 11 priority districts identified as in greatest need of humanitarian relief. Thousands of affected people require access to health care for emergency needs and for pre-existing conditions.

Injuries caused by this earthquake are similar to what we have seen after earthquakes of this magnitude: many who were trapped in buildings as they collapsed have lost their lives. Survivors have injuries ranging from broken bones, head trauma, spinal injuries and crush syndrome. These types of injuries require intensive and rapid medical treatment and some will require surgery.

According to WHO, the foreign medical teams deploying to Nepal meet the minimum standards required to be part of this life-saving initiative, which include being able to: provide initial emergency care of injuries for outpatients; deliver inpatient acute care, general and obstetric surgery for trauma and other major conditions; ensure complex inpatient referral surgical care, including intensive care capacity and be self-sufficient and capable of providing care upon arrival.

WHO has established an organization-wide coordination mechanism to mobilize experts to support the health sector in Nepal to respond to this crisis, Dr Singh said.

A surge team comprising of an emergency operation commander, 2 epidemiologists and 2 logisticians have been deployed to strengthen WHO support.

“Within 24 hours of the earthquake, WHO provided the first tranche of USD 175 000 to the Government of Nepal from the South-East Asia Regional Health Emergency Fund to meet the immediate health needs of the earthquake-affected people in Nepal.” He added

Meanwhile, Nepal has declared three days of mourning for the victims of Saturday’s earthquake in which more than 5,000 people are now known to have died.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala says the government is doing all it can but is overwhelmed by the scale of the catastrophe.

BBC reports that rescuers are still struggling to bring aid to remote Himalayan areas, while heavy rain is worsening the plight of hundreds of thousands of people camped out in the open.

The UN estimates that eight million people in 39 districts have been affected by the 7.8-magnitude quake – more than a quarter of the population.

More than 10,000 people have been injured.

Among the dead are 18 climbers who were at Mount Everest base camp when it was hit by an avalanche triggered by the quake.

Those are the startling numbers that indicate the scale of the devastation from the huge earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday.

And some of the grim figures are likely to get even worse as hopes of rescuing any more survivors diminish every hour.

Heartbreaking scenes of suffering and loss are playing out across this shell-shocked nation as it reels from its deadliest natural disaster in more than 80 years.

As the country coped with the fallout of the quake, another natural disaster struck Tuesday afternoon in a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu, and up to 200 people were feared missing as a result, a trekking association official said.

CNN reports that the landslide happened around 4 p.m. in Langtang National Park, said Ramesh Dhamala, president of the Trekking Agents of Nepal. Laxmi Dhakal, spokesman for Nepal’s Home Ministry, said he was aware of reports about the landslide but wasn’t immediately able to confirm details.

Quake relief efforts continued Tuesday, but officials warned that they were hampered by problems of getting aid into the country and then delivering it to some of the remote communities in desperate need.
</text>