<url>
http://news.nationalpost.com/news/world/surviving-climbers-tell-of-terror-on-mount-everest-as-nepal-earthquake-struck-it-just-engulfed-us
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Surviving climbers tell of terror on Mount Everest as Nepal earthquake struck: ‘It just engulfed us’
</headline>

<text>
Climbers stranded on Mount Everest were believed to have been rescued Monday night, more than 48 hours after an avalanche buried part of the mountain’s base camp in snow and rock.

An estimated 150 climbers were airlifted down the mountain in dozens of helicopter shuttle runs from the upper slopes to the devastated base camp, where at least 18 died in the avalanche triggered by Saturday’s earthquake.

The death toll across the whole of Nepal passed 4,000 Monday night, with many remote parts of the country still cut off.

As survivors from Everest reached hospitals in Kathmandu, one climber told The Daily Telegraph how he was tossed around “like a rag doll” as the avalanche flattened the base camp.

Paul Greenan, from Dublin, was yards from Dan Fredinburg, a Google executive killed when the wall of snow and ice hit.

“This mountain of snow just tipped over,” the 38-year-old said from his hospital bed in the Nepalese capital, where he was being treated for a dislocated elbow, six broken ribs, a broken hand and a broken pelvis.

“It had built up over the last two weeks. It came towards us — we waited for it to run out of steam, but instead it just engulfed us. I was thrown aside like a rag doll by the sheer force behind it.”

A team of British Army Gurkhas scaling the mountain to mark the unit’s 200th anniversary were among those ferried down from the mountain’s Camp One by helicopter.

The 18-strong team had hoped to be the first serving Gurkhas to scale the peak. They will now stay at the base camp for at least two days helping the recovery efforts, before walking back to Kathmandu.

The peaks and ridges of the Himalayas would have experienced some of the worst effects of the 7.9-magnitude earthquake, one landslide expert said.

Prof. David Petley, pro-vice-chancellor of the University of East Anglia, said that being up in the Himalayas during the earthquake was “the worst place to be.”

“The greatest intensity of tremor is felt on the ridges and peaks,” Petley said. “It’s a bit like with a tuning fork — the shaking is most intense at the top.”

He said the earthquake would “pop” rocks off the sides of the mountains and rain them down on anyone below.

“It must have been truly horrifying to be there,” he added.

With roads and infrastructure badly damaged, many trekkers in remote parts of the country were feared to be running low on food and water.

The family of one missing student received an SOS saying her group was trapped without food and water and in desperate need of medical assistance.

Susannah Ross, 20, has not contacted her family in England since she left for a trek into the remote valleys in Langtang National Park on Friday. One of her fellow walkers, a South African, managed to send a message to his mother Monday evening revealing his group is in desperate need of help.

Ross’s sister Nina, from Bath, England, said: “Someone has managed to text or something saying they are stuck in an area with 15 other trekkers. Basically they have sent the co-ordinates but said in the message that some are injured and that they don’t have any food or water and that they really need to be rescued.

“They have said they need a helicopter to get out. All the roads around them are ruined and they can’t get out.”
</text>