<url>
http://www.iamin.in/en/mumbai-north/news/kandivali-resident-calls-home-nepal-says-he-safe-58505
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Kandivali resident calls home from Nepal, says he is safe
</headline>

<text>
On Wednesday evening, the Patoleys who live in Kandivali got the call for which they have been waiting with their fingers crossed. It was from their son Rohan, who had gone to Nepal on April 20 and had not been in contact with them since April 25, the day when Nepal was hit by an earthquake of massive intensity.



Though the family is still not in a condition to express how they feel, Rohan’s friend, Ameet Arote could not stop sharing his happiness about his friend being safe.



“He got in touch with his family through some helpline at Nepal and told them he was safe. I am feeling so relieved,” said Ameet who is also a Kandivali resident.



32-year-old Rohan, who works as a documentary filmmaker with a travel channel, had gone to Nepal for a shoot when the disaster struck there and he lost all contact with his family and friends in Mumbai.



After reading reports of injuries and casualties in Nepal, Rohan’s family started panicking and started making all possible attempts to get in touch with him but all in vain. Then Ameet who is a media professional stepped in and put to use his knowledge about applications and his social networking skills.



“His family was worried but helpless. Even I was concerned but I realised that this wasn’t the time to simply keep worrying and do nothing to help matters. So, I first tried to track his last location through a website and that move helped. His location was shown to be at Last Resort at Tatopani in Nepal. Then I went on to post appeals of Rohan being out of contact on Facebook hoping that the message would spread and we could get some information about Rohan. I don’t know if Facebook helped or not but on Monday evening, I got to know that Rohan contacted his family and told them that he is safe,” said Ameet who has been Rohan’s friend for eight years.



Even though nobody knows about Rohan’s exact whereabouts now, his family is happy to know that their son is safe and they are all praying for his quick return.



Annual Nepal trip turns into a nightmare for this Bandra couple:



Bandra residents Madhavi and Dinesh Bhojwani, who went to Nepal on last Tuesday, have been stuck there. And to add to the troubles of this couple, Dinesh, who suffers from cervical spondylosis, has been experiencing severe health issues for the past few days. He has been running temperature and there seems to be no respite for him because Kathmandu airport has a queue of people stretching upto atleast two kilometres. Each of them is waiting to get back home.







Dinesh’s friend Sulaiman Bhimani is now using social networking site Twitter and tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his tweets to pull attention towards his friend’s medical condition.



"Dinesh is not feeling well and his return to India should be expedited on the grounds of medical emergency. His condition is getting worse with every passing day. So, I am requesting our Prime Minister to get him back home at the earliest,” said Sulaiman.
</text>