<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3058814/We-overwhelmed-s-alive-s-frantic-race-help-British-families-endure-agonizing-day-waiting-news-loved-ones-missing-Nepal-earthquake-fear-worst.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
British families endure wait for news of loved ones missing after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
The family of missing Bath woman Susannah Ross has received an SOS message saying her group is trapped in Nepal without food and water and in desperate need of medical assistance.

Dozens of other families are also enduring an agonising wait for news about loved ones after Saturday's devastating earthquake.

The Foreign Office is currently probing reports that one British national has been killed by it, as the death toll from the disaster topped 5,000.

Towns and villages across Nepal have been flattened and communications problems in the worst-affected areas has meant friends and families of foreigners staying there have been left in the dark about their well-being.

Susannah Ross (pictured), 20, from Bath, is among a group of trekkers left stranded in the Langtang valley in the north of the country

The GPS co-ordinates of the spot from where Susannah Ross's group of travellers issued a distress call

The Langtang National Park lies just to the north of Kathmandu. Ms Ross's family have spoken of their distress over her plight, as they have yet to hear from her directly

Lucky Tom Southgate (right), 23, had a lucky escape on Saturday because illness prevented him from travelling to Everest Base Camp

Samuel Becket from Leicester (left) has not been heard of since the disaster unfolded and Matt Carapiet (right) from Maidstone, Kent, is also still missing

James Grieve (pictured), 52, speaking over a satellite phone from Camp One on the world's highest peak said that the rescue effort was being hampered by storms

British climber Dan Mazur (pictured) had tweeted on Saturday 'massive earthquake just hit Everest. Basecamp severly damaged… Please pray for everyone'

Martin Gattuso, 38, from Warwickshire, has not been in touch with relatives since the quake struck

Jake Whyles (pictured), of Spalding, Lincolnshire, is said to be mentally exhausted after seeing a lot of bodies and collapsed buildings

Honeymooners Sam and Alex Chappatte were airlifted to safety from Base Camp One on Everest

Yoga student Susannah hasn't contacted her family and friends since she left for a trek into the remote valleys in the Langtang National Park on Friday.

One of her fellow walkers - a youngster from South Africa - managed to send a message to his mum revealing his group is in desperate need of help.

Susannah's sister Nina, 25, from Bath, Somerset, said: 'Someone has managed to text or something saying they are stuck in an area with 15 other trekkers.

'Basically they have sent the coordinates but said in the message that some are injured and that they don't have any food or water and that they really need to be rescued.

'They have said they need a helicopter to get out. All the roads around them are ruined and they can't get out.

'We only found out five minutes ago and are frantically trying to work out a way of reaching her and getting her help.'

Susannah - also known as Soozie - left home a month ago to take part in a yoga retreat and work at an ecological farm after saving up money by waitressing and working at the Bell pub in Walcot Street.

She called Nina on Thursday to say she was planning to set off on a 20 day trek the next day and was due to stay in Nepal until June 20.

One of her group managed to send an SOS message to his mother on Monday with their coordinates - 28.154815 and 85.398595.

It also contained the names and emails of fellow trekkers' parents and the mother posted it on a forum used by the missing peoples' families.

It was spotted by Susannah's mum Judy, 62, who made contact with the mother and got further details about her daughter's group's condition.

A rescue dog belonging to the group of ISAR Germany (International Search And Rescue) searches the rubble following Saturday's earthquake, in Kathmandu

Dogs sleep beside rubble in a street of Khokana, some seven miles south of Kathmandu

Temporary shelters in Kathmandu following the 7.8 earthquake which struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday

Locals take snapshots with their cell phones at the historic Dharahara Tower, a city landmark that was almost completely destroyed by Saturday's earthquake

But her family are worried because, while the other walkers seemingly gave their parents' email addresses, the message only contained Judy's name.

Nina, a metal worker, added: 'We don't know why she is the only person that hasn't put an email address. Mum thinks she knew it.

'It makes us wonder if she is one of the ones who are injured and she can't speak.

'Basically we just want her out of there as soon as possible.'

Tweeters are re-tweeting her location: '28.154815 long 85.398595 near bamboo village in desperate need of helicopter assts. Pls RT.'

Jake Whyles, 24, of Spalding, Lincolnshire, meanwhile, who was feared to be missing after the earthquake has turned up safe.

His mother Maria Whyles, 48, said: 'He has managed to Skype us to say he is OK. He is mentally exhausted after seeing a lot of bodies and collapsed buildings.

'It is a huge relief for us and his friends.'

Jake, who works for a company which provides vegan food at music festivals, travelled to India last month on a backpacking trip before heading to Nepal.

Mrs Whyles said that he was now flying home after cutting short his trip.

Lee Tuddenham, 33, of South Creake, Norfolk, who was feared missing also contacted his family on Monday to say that he was safe.

His sister Clare Tuddenham, 32, said: 'We were really worried because we knew he was in the area and he had not been in touch.

'But we have just had a message from him to say that he is OK. It is great news.'

A graduate had a miracle escape from the Nepal earthquake after he pulled out of a trip to the doomed base camp at Mount Everest at the last minute - because he was ill.

Lucky Tom Southgate, 23, was planning to head out to the mountain on a hiking trip but was kept behind with a suspected stomach bug.

Fatalities: Dr Marisa Eve Girawong (left), 29, a medic on the base camp, and Google engineer Dan Fredinburg, 33, (right) were the first American identified fatalities in the Everest avalanche, which killed at least 18 climbers

Vietnamese American Vinh B Truong has confirmed as the fourth US citizen to be killed on Mount Everest at the time of Saturday's Nepal earthquake

His family spent the weekend fearing the worst after news emerged that 18 climbers had been killed by an avalanche at Everest which was triggered by the huge earthquake.

But they finally received a message from Tom on Monday saying he was safe and hadn't moved on to Everest before the disaster struck.

Samuel Becket from Leicester has not been heard of since the disaster unfolded, with his father saying that all they could do was scour social media sites for news.

Matt Carapiet, 23, from Maidstone, Kent, has also not been in touch with family or friends. His parents left a message for him on Google People Finder that said: 'Hi Matts, hope you are safe and well, contact us know as soon as you can. Mum and Dad x.'

Sam and Alex Chappatte had been tweeting about their ordeal up on Everest Base Camp One, but were finally airlifted down to Base Camp on Tuesday, describing the aftermath as a 'bombsite'.

The Foreign Office is investigating claims a British national was killed by the Nepalese earthquake, Philip Hammond has said.

The as-yet unconfirmed report related to a Briton not living in this country, the Foreign Secretary said.

Speaking in London, Mr Hammond said: 'We are urgently investigating unconfirmed reports of a non-UK resident British national having been killed and our teams on the ground will report back as soon as they have any further information on that.'

He added: 'We have a C-17 loaded with British Army Gurkha engineers and equipment in the region. We also have a Department for International Development (DFID) chartered Boeing 767 loaded with rescue teams and supplies. They're both waiting for landing slots when the weather at Kathmandu permits. They will be in and operating as soon as possible.

'In the meantime, we have already got some UK personnel in on other flights and there are 60 British personnel, search and rescue teams and other experts already on the ground delivering assistance.'

The fourth American to have died following Saturday's devastating earthquake has been confirmed as Vinh B Truong, who had been enjoying a hiking holiday when the tragedy happened.

The Victnamese American from California was among the fatalities at Mount Everest's base camp, the State Department confirmed on Monday.

American Google executive Dan Fredinburg, 33, was the first confirmed fatality on the mountain. New Jersey-born Dr Marisa Eve Girawong, 29, was also killed when ice and rock crushed the 18,000-foot-altitude base camp where she worked as a medic for Madison Mountaineering.

A search party sifts through rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu

Durbar Square in Kathmandu was left partially in ruins by the earthquake

Patan Durbar is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, but will now need to be completely rebuilt

Soldiers search through rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu

A third American, Tom Taplin, 61, who owned TET Films & Photography, was making a documentary when the earthquake hit.

Taplin was working on a film about the community of climbers at base camp and had been there only a short time when the magnitude-7.8 quake struck, his wife, Cory Freyer, told The Associated Press on Monday.

'His passions were adventure travel and extreme landscape types of films,' Freyer said in a telephone interview. The couple lived in Evergreen, Colorado, most of the year, she said.

Freyer said Taplin was passionate about mountaineering and was on his fourth trip to Nepal.

'He was very much a mountaineer,' she said. 'He incorporated his filming with his mountaineering.'

Taplin did not screen his documentaries publicly, although his latest project about the base camp at Mount Everest might have been a candidate for film festivals, Freyer said.

'That community and how it evolved over time was really what Tom wanted to create a film about,' Freyer said.

Dozens more Americans are believed to be missing in the Himalayas.

Tales of escape have emerged from survivors of the earthquake despite the difficulties with communication.

Dozens of climbers are stranded on Mount Everest awaiting helicopters after an avalanche blocked off all access points

Climber Alex Staniforth, 19, from Chester, said he was 'emotionally trashed' and 'very lucky to be alive' after being evacuated to base camp.

Entire villages have been wiped out and more than 1.4 million people are in need of food and water in Nepal, according to the latest reports.

The death toll in the worst earthquake to hit the country for more than 80 years has risen to more than 5,000 and thousands more are injured and homeless.

According to the most up-to-date figures from the UN, eight million people in 39 districts have been affected.

British and Irish medical staff, experts and volunteers have been dispatched to the worst-affected areas, with the RAF, firefighters from the UK International Search and Rescue Team, Gurkha engineers and medics from the Doctors Of The World charity among those involved.

Saleh Saeed, chief executive of the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), said a quake of this kind had been forecast to happen in the area for many years.

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme entire villages had been wiped out and, close to the earthquake's epicentre, whole villages had been completely destroyed.

'Now we are seeing tens of thousands of homeless people sleeping in makeshift camps,' he said. 'Those who are lucky have got tents, others are now having to sleep in the open air, in the cold, in the wet.'

A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal on Sunday

A person critically injured in the avalanche is carried on a stretcher to be evacuated out of Everest Base Camp

A rescue chopper prepares to land, carrying people from higher camps to Everest Base Camp in Nepal

Mr Saeed said that always after such disasters there was some degree of 'chaos and confusion' but he stressed aid was 'getting in' by road and plane, adding that over the next few days people would see an intense increased activity to make sure all those who need help are being reached.

He said he expected the death toll to rise, adding: 'What we really need to do is focus on those who are still living and need the help - that's tens of thousands of people who have been made homeless, 7,000 people who have been injured.'

Eighteen people died on Mount Everest after an avalanche swept through its Base Camp, and more climbers are stranded higher up the mountain.

A horrifying video of an avalanche hitting Base Camp was taken by climber Jost Kobusch, who worked in the Special Forces in the German Mountain Army. He said he felt the ground shaking and saw people sprinting away from the cloud of snow.

Dutch climber Eric Arnold described in a moving blog the horror of walking through Base Camp afterwards, which he described as a 'crash site'.

He wrote: 'We walk through the base camp and see if we can help somewhere. We can not do anything. In the morning the weather is equally clear. At that time, 35 wounded by helicopter to Kathmandu transported. Seventeen people have sadly deceased by the disaster. The camps of Adventure Consultants and Summit Climb are particularly badly hit.

The Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal is seen a day after the huge earthquake struck

A rescue helicopter at the Mount Everest south base camp

A C17 aircraft from 99 Sqn RAF Brize Norton prior to its take off for Kathmandu. A team of Gurkha engineers will fly out to Nepal on an RAF flight to join the aid efforts in the earthquake-stricken country

'I see very personal stuff - a log book, shampoo, slippers, reading glasses, everything. It reminds me of the images of a crashed plane. BC is nothing more than a crash site at this time. Some deaths have a face, a cameraman who walked two days in our camp is no longer alive.'

The Foreign Office said it had not received reports of any Britons being killed or injured but embassy staff have assisted 200 people.

The DEC will make a televised appeal for public donations today, launched across all the major broadcasters and fronted by Absolutely Fabulous star and Gurkha campaigner Joanna Lumley. The appeal is due to be broadcast on BBC One at 5:55pm and 10:50pm, BBC Two at 8pm and ITV at 6:51pm.

The UK has already pledged a £5 million package of support, including £3 million released under the Rapid Response Facility (RRF) to address immediate needs on the ground and £2 million to the British Red Cross.

Aid workers on the ground have reported 'huge logistical difficulties' as road closures and communication problems have thwarted some efforts.

Leigh Daynes, UK director of medical charity Doctors Of The World, said Nepal's health system was already vulnerable even before the earthquake, especially in rural areas.

'Now hospitals are utterly incapacitated, infrastructure has been decimated and thousands of people are sleeping on the streets. With monsoon season only weeks away, this is a catastrophe of the highest order and demands an urgent medical response,' he said.

'We are facing huge logistical difficulties. As well as roads being closed, aftershocks have prevented planes from landing at Kathmandu airport.'

The 7.8-magnitude quake struck just before midday on Saturday, sending tremors through the Kathmandu Valley and the nearby city of Pokhara.

Mike Adamson, chief executive of the British Red Cross, said while many newer buildings in the Kathmandu valley had survived, older ones had not been able to withstand the force of the shock.

'As the death toll continues to rise, it is our absolute priority to continue the search and rescue operations and get aid to those left stranded,' he said.

Disaster experts believe the earthquake will leave Nepal dependent on aid from countries such as the UK for years, and that recovery from the devastation could take a decade.
</text>