<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-29/nepal-quake-victims-still-stranded-pm-says-toll-could-be-10000/6429268
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Victims still stranded in remote villages, PM says toll could reach 10,000
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Victims still stranded in remote villages, PM says toll could reach 10,000

Updated

People stranded in remote villages across Nepal are still waiting for aid to arrive, as the country's prime minister says the death toll from Saturday's devastating earthquake could reach 10,000.

The government has yet to assess the full scale of the damage wrought by the 7.9-magnitude quake, which destroyed buildings and roads and killed more than 4,600 people.

Officials are still unable to reach many mountainous areas despite aid supplies and personnel pouring in from around the world.

Prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could reach 10,000, as information on damage from far-flung villages and towns was yet to come in.

That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake, the last disaster on this scale to hit the Himalayan nation.

"The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing," Mr Koirala said. "It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal."

According to the home ministry, the confirmed death toll stands at 4,682, with more than 9,240 injured.

Nepal told aid agencies it did not need more foreign rescue teams to help search for survivors, because its government and military could cope, the national head of the United Nations Development Program said.

Disbursement of international aid has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.

Two Australian C-17 aircraft have left Amberley airbase in Queensland for the stricken country, carrying 15,000 kilograms of aid including tarpaulins, woollen blankets, and 80,000 water purification tablets.

About 70 defence personnel, immigration and other government officials are travelling to Kathmandu to distribute the aid and help with evacuation efforts.

Thousands have spent their fourth night sleeping in the open in a tent city in the capital Kathmandu, too afraid to return to their damaged homes.

Most people have crafted shelters out of tarps, and are sharing food amongst large family groups. Rain over the past few nights has caked mud on the ground, increasing the risk of waterborne diseases.

Experts said the chance of finding people alive in the ruins was slim more than four days after disaster struck.

"After the first 72 hours the survival rate drops dramatically and we are on day four," said Wojtek Wilk of the Polish Centre for International Aid.

The non-government organisation has six medical staff and 81 firefighters in Nepal. "On the fifth day it's next to zero," Mr Wilk said.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

However, in a rare glimmer of hope, a Nepali-French rescue team pulled a 28-year-old man, Rishi Khanal, from a collapsed apartment block in Kathmandu after he had spent around 80 hours trapped in a room with three dead bodies.

In Jharibar, a village in the hilly Gorkha district of Nepal close to the quake's epicentre, Sunthalia was not so lucky.

Her husband was away in India and with no help in sight, she dug for hours in the rubble of her collapsed home on Saturday to recover the bodies of two of her children, a 10-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son.

Another son aged four miraculously survived.

Hundreds killed in landslides, hundreds still missing

In Barpak, further north, rescue helicopters were unable to find a place to land. On Tuesday, soldiers had started to make their way overland, first by bus, then by foot.

Army helicopters also circled over Laprak, another village in the district best known as the home of Gurkha soldiers.

A local health official estimated that 1,600 of the 1,700 houses there had been razed. Helicopters dropped food packets in the hope that survivors could gather them up.

In Sindhupalchowk, about 3.5 hours by road north-east of Kathmandu, the earthquake was followed by landslides, killing 1,182 people and seriously injuring 376.

A local official said he feared many more were trapped and more aid was needed.

"There are hundreds of houses where our people have not been able to reach yet," Krishna Pokharel, the district administrator, said.

"There is a shortage of fuel, the weather is bad and there is not enough help coming in from Kathmandu."

The United Nations said 8 million people were affected by the quake and that 1.4 million people were in need of food.

Nepal's most deadly quake in 81 years also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 18 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world's highest peak.

All the climbers who had been stranded at camps high up on Everest had been flown by helicopters to safety, mountaineers reported on Tuesday.

Up to 250 people were missing after an avalanche hit a village on Tuesday in Rasuwa district, a popular trekking area to the north of Kathmandu, district governor Uddhav Bhattarai said.

Reuters

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, relief-and-aid-organisations, nepal, asia

First posted
</text>