<url>
http://www.12news.com/story/news/local/valley/2015/05/28/marine-helicopter-crash-nepal-earthquake/28051827/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Glendale teen calls brother killed in Nepal a hero
</headline>

<text>
Nathaniel Franklin and Jacob Hug (Photo: Kevin Kennedy)

Nathaniel Franklin and brothers (Photo: Kevin Kennedy)

Nathaniel Franklin will never forget the day his older brother died. Franklin had just finished classes for the day at Cactus High School.

"I got a text from my mom telling me that it was urgent," Franklin said.

Earlier that day, half way around the world, a Marine helicopter had crashed in Nepal. Franklin's brother, Marine Lance Cpl. Jacob Hug was onboard.

"(My mom) had a bad gut feeling, mother's intuition that something was wrong," Franklin said.

The crew was delivering supplies to earthquake victims after a 7.3 magnitude quake rocked Nepal earlier this month. The helicopter went missing on Tuesday, May 12 after a large aftershock hit the region. The family quickly gathered at Jacob and Nathaniel's mother house as they waited for word on the helicopter. The next five days were horrible.

"The worst thing was the not knowing if he was dead or not," Franklin said.

After an intense and difficult search the aircraft was found in the mountains near Kathmandu, Nepal's capitol, Hug was found in the wreckage.

"I already knew before they (Marines) told us," Franklin said.

Hug was taking photos and video of the U.S. military relief effort in Nepal when the crash occurred.

"He died doing what he loved," Franklin said.

Franklin remembers when his brother was thinking about joining the military, saying at first he looked at the Army and Air Force before changing his mind.

"I kept telling him, Marines, Marines, Marines," Franklin said. Hug enlisted after his 2012 graduation form Barry Goldwater High School.

Franklin said his brother was a quiet kid who would stay in his room and read books, but once he joined the Marines that changed.

"He was in Japan on stage doing karaoke at the bars and stuff," Franklin said.

He said his brother was the happiest he ever saw him. He also remembers their mom trying to talk Jacob out of joining.

"She almost got him to quit the Marines," Franklin said.

Franklin said his mom is still in disbelief about everything that has happened.

The pain of losing her oldest son made a recent conversation that Franklin had with his mom that much harder. Andrea Hug knew Nathaniel was joining the Army, but she didn't know he planned to eventually join the Marines and head overseas.

"That was (not) a fun conversation to have with her about me going active (duty)," Franklin said.

He plans to serve in the Army National Guard for six years while getting a degree at ASU. He says after that he hopes to join the Marines as an Officer.

Franklin said his brother's death has only strengthened his desire to serve.

"It makes me want to go and serve like he did, and have that brotherly (bond) with him," Franklin said.

Franklin says he is heading to basic combat training in Missouri next month for nine weeks. After that he will finish his senior year in high school.

The family is planning to have a memorial service for Hug early next month.
</text>