<url>
http://www.lfpress.com/2015/04/27/londoners-family-in-nepal-survived-but-he-wants-to-help-other-victims
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
So far away, yet so near
</headline>

<text>
From half a world away, Yam Gurung is searching for a way to help back home.

He knows he’s lucky. His parents and siblings are safe in one of the areas worst hit by the earthquake in Nepal.

“I’m one of the luckiest families here. Like I won $1 billion,” said the friendly owner of Momos at the Market, a popular food stand at the Western Fair Farmers’ and Artisans’ Market.

In the days to come, Gurung and the small Nepalese and Bhutanese communities in London are planning ways to raise money for the stricken area of their home country.

On Saturday, a 7.9-magnitude quake shook the region.

A series of strong aftershocks followed. The death toll has topped 3,900, with thousands more injured. Rescuers continue to search for the missing.

It’s the worst earthquake in the region in 82 years.

Gurung, 39, has been in London since 2001. His parents live in the district of Lamjung, not far from Kathmandu, Nepal’s capital and the quake’s epicentre.

He said he was angry when his phone began ringing at 4 a.m. Saturday. His annoyance became shock when told of the disaster.

He tried to call his family, but phone lines were down. It was social media, primarily Facebook, that told him everyone was alive.

“I used to say, ‘oh, those silly Facebook things,’ but now I realize how important it is,” Gurung said.

His parents and four sisters are in Nepal. His brother is in the United States.

“They’re all OK, but their house is damaged and not really liveable now,” he said of his childhood home. “They probably have to demolish it.”

“It doesn’t matter, as long as people are safe.”

One of his sisters from Kathmandu was visiting their parents at the time of the quake.

“My three sisters and brother-in-law and nephews are out of their homes and in tents in a big field,” he said of his family in Kathmandu.

“It’s hard to connect. I can’t really talk to them,” he added, although they’ve sent word they’re safe.

Unable to sleep and not wanting to awaken his wife and two kids after receiving the news, he was at the market working by 6 a.m.

While Gurung was counting his blessings, he soon found out how others close to him weren’t as fortunate.

While his customers stopped by to offer their support and condolences, one of the women who works for him received a call during their busy Saturday shift that one of her cousins had died when her home collapsed.

“I said, ‘Please take the phone call. It’s no big deal. These people can wait for their food,’ ” Gurung said.

Everything stopped when she received the tragic news. Gurung sat with her and offered comfort.

“I didn’t know what to say. I had no words for her,” he said. “ She’s been working with me two years now. She’s part of the family.”

While no formal fundraiser in London has been organized, Gurung has his own ideas to help the people in his area.

He wants to hold a dinner party next month at the market with all the money going to his village and the communities from where two of his Nepalese employees hail.

He’s already given money to a cousin who has dropped everything, including his job, in Boston, to return to Nepal and help.

“We can rebuild anything,” he said.

While Gurung and the Nepalese community make plans here, a London paramedic with experience in international disasters is on the ground in Nepal.

Julie Colgan is with Global Medics and flew into Nepal Monday

“More and more Canadians are being sent this week,” said Rahul Singh, a spokesperson for the organization.

Singh said Colgan “has a special skill set” to help set up hospitals and clean water supplies.

jane.sims@sunmedia.com

twitter.com/JaneatLFPress

- - -

HOW TO HELP
</text>