<url>
http://www.recorder.ca/2015/04/28/nepal-quake-more-like-a-sea-wave
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
UPDATED: Nepal quake 'more like a sea wave'
</headline>

<text>
They went to climb a mountain, but instead they felt waves like the sea.

Brockville city councillor David LeSueur and his wife, Becky, had just crossed the street from a palace in Kathmandu Saturday when the earthquake that devastated Nepal first struck.

“I felt the jolt and my legs buckled a little bit and then the whole ground started shaking back and forth,” LeSueur recalled in a telephone interview late Monday night, EST.

He grabbed his wife’s hand and the couple dropped to their knees.

“It was like standing on a concrete slab that was full of water underneath,” said LeSueur. “It was more like a sea wave.”

“Everybody just stopped right where they were. No cars moved,” he added.

“People had been thrown off bikes and motorcycles.”

The couple are part of a 22-member Dream Mountains Foundation expedition from Eastern Ontario that set out to climb to Everest Base Camp as a fundraiser.

As of Tuesday night, most of that team, including LeSueur and his wife, were on a plane headed back to Canada. LeSueur expected the trip to take 24 hours with the stopovers.

LeSueur, posting on Facebook from a stop in Doha, Qatar, said he expected to arrive in Brockville around 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

Powerful aftershocks continued through the weekend as the death toll from the disaster reached at least 4,600 people Tuesday, with more than 7,000 injured. The country’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, told Reuters the death toll could reach 10,000.

The Dream Mountain team appeared to be isolated from the worst of that devastation, being housed in a hotel that was better built for quakes. LeSueur said they slept for two nights outdoors in a makeshift “base camp” as a precaution.



David LeSueur posted this Facebook photo of a makeshift 'base camp' outside his hotel in Kathmandu. (FACEBOOK PHOTO)

The visitors were told not to leave the hotel compound, but he and a few others tried to venture out to see if they could help, said LeSueur.

Large crowds gathered around the wrecked buildings and the language barrier made that difficult, he added.

Instead, LeSueur encountered fellow Rotarians from around the world at his hotel and they all started working their contacts.

“We all sent messages back to our clubs, asking that they send shelter boxes and relief,” said LeSueur, acknowledging much of that work was already underway by then.

“That was about all that we could do,” he added.

The group initially hoped to resume its trek to Everest Base Camp, but that was before it learned of the devastation wrought there by an avalanche, said LeSueur.

While they were insulated from the worst of the quake and its aftershocks, the LeSueurs realized the extent of the devastation watching the news on television – seeing the sites they had just recently visited, priceless gems of Nepalese heritage, reduced to rubble.

“We have some of the last pictures of it, in a way,” he observed.

As with most large-scale disasters, the aftermath of the tragedy included an influx of reporters and crews from international media outlets, many of them staying at the local group’s hotel.

“There’s cameras and satellites and all kinds of media from around the world,” said LeSueur.

LeSueur said he was raising funds for Habitat for Humanity. He was not sure whether any of those proceeds might be diverted to Nepal relief.

With files from Postmedia Network

@RipNTearRon on Twitter
</text>