<url>
http://www.northernstar.com.au/news/bangalow-man-nepal-reported-be-safe/2621121/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Bangalow man caught up in earthquake due to fly home today
</headline>

<text>
UPDATE WEDNESDAY: A BANGALOW man and his girlfriend are due to fly out of Kathmandu today and land at the Gold Coast tonight.

Oliver Kohlenberg and his girlfriend Daisy Hatton were in Kathmandu when Saturday's magnitude 7.8 quake struck.

The pair had spent more than a month in Nepal after travelling from India.

Oliver's father Tony, who flew back to Australia after two weeks trekking in Nepal with his son and his girlfriend said he still hasn't spoken to the former Byron Bay High student.

"He still hasn't arrived yet, he's due in tonight," he said.

"I haven't spoken to him at all.

"All we know is from the original tickets they are destined to get in tonight."

On the Nepal Earthquake Restoring Family Links website managed by the International Committee of the Red Cross, both Oliver and Daisy are still listed as missing.

INITIAL REPORT TUESDAY: A BANGALOW man and his girlfriend who were caught up in Saturday's devastating Nepal earthquake have made contact with their family and are on their way back to Australia.

The magnitude 7.8 earthquake which struck about 4pm on Saturday, Australian time, has claimed more than 4000 lives.

Former Byron Bay High School student Oliver Kohlenberg, 20, and his girlfriend Daisy Hatton of Cornwall in the United Kingdom travelled to India from Australia in February.

Read more: Hand written note a glimmer of hope for family of Ngaire

On March 1, Mr Kohlenberg posted on Facebook about the trip.

"I'm in Rajasthan but heading to Nepal in a few weeks come hang," he posted in reply to his friend Toby Carroll.

On April 9, Mr Kohlenberg posted an article about his former Harvest Café colleague, chef Joseph Griffin, from Kathmandu, Nepal.

The day after the quake rocked the region, Kahn Kohlenberg, posted on Oliver's Facebook page.

"Dad told me your sleeping in a park because of the aftershocks.

"That's two close calls in Nepal now ey?"

"When you get out let us know, and then buy yourself a lotto ticket."

This morning Joe Corin posted good news on Mr Kohlenberg's Facebook page.

"Blessed you guys are safe Daisy Hatton, Oliver Kohlenberg lookin forward to seeing your faces . Stay safe x"

Oliver's father Tony confirmed he had spoken with his son, who is alive and well and on his way back to Australia today.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said consular officials have contacted 1150 Australians in Nepal who are safe and well.
</text>