<url>
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-it-is-chaos-chaos-says-photographer-from-the-midst-of-a-nation-in-ruin-10210581.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 'It is chaos, chaos,' says photographer from the midst of a nation in ruin
</headline>

<text>
A Spanish photographer living and working in Nepal at the time of the worst earthquake to strike the country in more than 80 years has spoken of the devastation around him.

“It is chaos, total chaos,” Getty photographer Omar Havana told The Independent over the phone from his hotel in Kathmandu.

Mr Havana, originally from Spain, had moved to Nepal in October 2014 and was living with his girlfriend when the 7.8 earthquake struck on Saturday. “This disaster is affecting me personally,” he said.

“What you are going to see is fear, people are panicking - still no one wants to go back to their homes,” he said. “There are so many rumours on social media that a big earthquake is going to strike.”

Nepal is buckling under the severity of the quake on Saturday with the number of dead continuing to rise. Earlier today the Prime Minster Sushil Koirala announced three days of mourning for the victims – even as survivors’ anger mounted over the government’s perceived inability to help.

Over the phone, working briefly despite the electricity failing, the 39-year-old photographer said: “Today was the first day when I went out and people were asking me questions like: Can you give me food? Can you give me water? But I can do nothing – we are lucky if we get a meal a day – I am in the same situation as these people.”

He claimed that although the government was doing “fantastic work,” the quake was too large and the preparations incomplete.

“It is just not enough. We need more,” he said.

Powerful earthquake hits Nepal







44 show all Powerful earthquake hits Nepal





















































































1/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Victims of the earthquake are cremated at Pashupatinah Temple in Kathmandu Getty Images

2/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman prays at a temple in Kathmandu damaged by the earthquake AP

3/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police push back residents who began protesting after waiting for hours in line to board buses back to towns and villages Getty

4/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese policeman guards a collapsed building in Kathmandu. The number of people killed in the earthquake has passed 5,000 according to official figures EPA

5/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A woman stands in silence in front of the historic Bal Krishna Thapa Chhetry temple in Kathmandu, which was been damaged by the earthquake EPA

6/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers from Japan in the centre of Kathmandu; they are facing a race against time to find survivors Getty

7/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Pallets of Australian aid (blankets, tarpaulins, hygiene kits and water purification tablets) are loaded onto a No. 36 Squadron C-17A Globemaster aircraft in preparation for delivery to Nepal Getty Images

8/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rishi Khanal is rescued after being trapped in a collapsed building in Nepal’s capital following Saturday’s earthquake Reuters

9/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Villagers shelter from rain in the Gorkha district, north-west of Kathmandu; 10 days of rain are forecast, with tens of thousands of people sleeping outdoors AFP/Getty

10/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal Reuters

11/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search through the rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hundreds of thousands of Nepalis spent another night in the open after a massive quake which killed more than 4,000 AFP/Getty

12/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A priest prepares a fire for the cremation of an earthquake victim at Pashupati cremation center in Kathmandu, Nepal. The official death toll from the magnitude 7.8 earthquake has risen to 5,057 people EPA

13/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha AFP/Getty

14/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A satellite image showing a part of the city's historic center, left, before the 25 April 2015 earthquake and the after effects, right EPA

15/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman and her daughter receive medical treatment after arriving at Dhading hospital, in the aftermath of the earthquake, in Dhading Besi

16/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman mourns in front of her destroyed home in the Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

17/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Earthquake victims collect belongings and salvage food items from a destroyed building after a major earthquake, Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

20/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured boy sleeps on the ground outside the overcrowded Dhading hospital in Dhading Besi

21/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Members of a rescue team from China huddle while planning their operation at the site of earthquake in Kathmandu

22/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Local people gather at the top of large mound where once stood a temple to view the scene of devastation in Kathmandu

23/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People pray before cremating the body of a victim of the earthquake, along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal

24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

27/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian resident Santosh (2L) is met by relatives after being evacuated following an earthquake in Nepal at the railway station in Amritsar

28/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A helicopter prepares to rescue people from camp 1 and 2 at Everest Base Camp, Nepal

29/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People carry a woman from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

30/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a living man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal EPA

31/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A man struggles to free himself from under the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

32/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

33/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Dust can be seen over the city during an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

34/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A building stands damaged after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015 AP

35/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese people walk past a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

36/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured man is assisted after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

37/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

38/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese health workers carry injured people into an open area following an 7.9 earthquake, at Lalitpur on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

39/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian bystanders look at a collapsed house following an earthquake, in Siliguri on April 25, 2015 AFP/Getty Images

40/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers help with rescue work at the site of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

41/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

42/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building, after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

43/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu GETTY

44/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Health workers take care of injured people outside the Manmohan Memorial Community Hospital after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

Working over the past few days photographing the camps and the outlying villages near Kathmandu Mr Havana says the worst is yet to come. “This disaster is really going to be when we start to go to the remote areas, areas like Gorkha”.

He estimated that the death toll, presently at 5,000 with thousands more injured, could “double” as more people are transported to already struggling hospitals in the capital.

International aid has started trickling into Nepal. India, China, the US and the UK have all pledged to send teams and equipment with some starting to arrive in the wrecked country today.

Even with this help, the situation for many was dire. “The magnitude of the disaster is huge. It is huge.”

“There are only 5,000 tents so people are using polythene and plastic covers and even umbrellas. But what they need urgently is 600,000 tents: it is raining every day and the situation is only going to get worse,” he said. “We have 5000 tents but we are speaking about 8 million people who need help.”

But he said the atmosphere in Kathmandu particularly was “something else,” describing how the entire country “had become a family”.

“Everyone is helping,” he said. “From engineers doing bandages in hospital to students digging. I think it is hard in Nepal to feel that you are alone and especially at the moment.

“It is beautiful – even though beautiful is not the word – it is something that makes you feel like you are a human being again.”
</text>