<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/am/content/2015/s4225712.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Tent city shelters overflowing in Nepalese capital
</headline>

<text>
Samantha Hawley reported this story on Wednesday, April 29, 2015 08:17:11

MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: In the Nepalese capital the tent cities housing thousands of residents are straining under the pressure.



Families too scared to go home because of aftershocks or those who have no homes to go back to have limited shelter and bedding and next to no food and water.



Australia's Tim Costello from World Vision walked through one of the camps with our South East Asia correspondent Samantha Hawley, where they told of the lack of help the Nepalese government is providing in the wake of the quake.



TIM COSTELLO: My heart's broken, hearing people say we don't have a government, they've not given us a tent or any food, we've had to buy it all ourselves.



And the fear on their faces and the protection of staying here just for their children is total vulnerability.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: So does this really now have to be over to the international community?



TIM COSTELLO: Absolutely. The good thing is the government has said we need the international community, invited them in. Some governments don't even do that.



I think the commitment, organisation and just know-how of the international community is what's needed for people like that. Such beautiful children, and yet I don't know where they're going to go. I don't know how they're going to survive if the international community isn't here.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: And does that need to speed up? I mean can it be sped up?



TIM COSTELLO: Well, it certainly needs to be sped up. Certainly the- I saw the planes and we're bringing one in from Dubai and our warehouse and we're doing more.



But obviously the size and scope of this is far greater than the capacity at the moment to get to people.



Having arrived and seen this from myself, I'm going, 'this is too slow'. Not that anyone is to blame, but we have to make a deliberate decision to do better.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Priorities then for the international community or the aid - what are the absolute priorities? What has to happen first?



TIM COSTELLO: It's always shelter, food, water. Here in Kathmandu, even if you have an electric generator and water the electricity is out so you can't pump it up. So here we're seeing that shelter is very, very patchy, very temporary.



And until there is proper shelter and the confidence that they have food and they don't have to- as the panic in their faces showed, so we don't know where the food's coming from, no-one's helping us, and clean water - they're the priorities.



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: The world has had to cope with disasters like this before but you don't think the world is learning how to do it better?



TIM COSTELLO: So we've known that this is an earthquake zone. We know the Indian tectonic plate's pushing underneath the European, the Himalayas behind us are proof, and therefore earthquakes, you would have thought, had required both government and international community to build earthquake resistant buildings and houses and be absolutely ready to snap when the earthquake hits and protect people. That doesn't seem to have happened.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: World Vision's Tim Costello with our correspondent in Nepal, Samantha Hawley.



And if you want to donate to a special appeal to help the people of Nepal, go to the ABC's website: abc.net.au/appeals.
</text>