<url>
http://newsroomamerica.com/story/489776.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Death Toll Continues To Rise Following Nepal Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
By Newsroom America Staff at 27 Apr 2015

(Newsroom America) -- At least 3,000 people have died and many thousands are injured as a result of a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, with the death toll continuing to rise.

The figures, released by the Nepalese Government Ministry of Home Affairs' National Emergency Operation Center, are the latest available and are expected to rise as search and rescue efforts continue and the total number of people affected by the disaster is determined.

“Time is of the essence for the search and rescue operations,” said UN Under-Secretary-General of Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Valerie Amos.

"The actions of the Government of Nepal and local communities themselves have already saved many lives. Teams from India, Pakistan, China and Israel have started work, and more are on their way from the US, the UK, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates, the European Union and elsewhere.”

The situation report says that 35 of the 75 districts in Nepal are reported to be affected by the earthquake, with the most affected districts being Dhading, Gorkha, Rasuwa, Sindhupalchowk, Kavre, Nuwakot, Dolakha, Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur, and Ramechhap.

Ms Amos said UN agencies were working with humanitarian partners in Nepal, supporting the Government and other partners. The World Food Programme (WFP) was providing food items, The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) was sending tents and healthcare supplies and the World Health Organization (WHO) had distributed medical supplies to cover the immediate needs of 40,000 people.

She added that a UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination team was on the ground helping to coordinate response effort, adding that the Organization would continue supporting the people of Nepal in the weeks and months ahead.

People affected by the earthquake are in need of food, water, emergency shelter and healthcare, with many having slept in the open in makeshift tents for two nights.

The UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) said the earthquake, as well as nearly 60 aftershocks that followed, caused “vast devastation across much of the country,” adding that at least 940,000 children live in areas severely affected by the quake and are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance

In a report on the agency's website, UNICEF stressed the heightened vulnerability of children when access to safe water and sanitation was limited and said children may have become separated from their families.

The report said staff and supplies were mobilizing to meet urgent humanitarian needs, with a focus on water and sanitation, nutrition, education and child protection. Two cargo flights, with a combined 120 tonnes of humanitarian supplies including medical and hospital supplies, tents and blankets, were being readied for urgent airlift to Kathmandu.
</text>