<url>
http://armenpress.am/eng/news/803569/armenia%E2%80%99s-minister-of-territorial-administration-and-emergency-situations-ready-to-help-nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Armenia’s Minister of Territorial Administration and Emergency Situations ready to help Nepal | ARMENPRESS Armenian News Agency
</headline>

<text>
YEREVAN, 28 APRIL, ARMENPRESS. The rescuers of Armenia got in touch with Nepal, but there is no possibility of accepting the rescuers. Armenia is ready to provide other types of assistance, if they tell what they need for. The Press Service of the Ministry of Territorial Administration and Emergency Situations of the Republic of Armenia stated this in a talk with “Armenpress”. "By the order of Armen Yeritsyan, a working group was established with involvement of the relevant ministries, agencies and organizations of Armenia, which clarified that whether there are citizens of the Republic of Armenia in Nepal. it has been revealed that there are no Armenian citizens in Nepal.

The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Emergency Situations of the Republic of Armenia stays in touch with the relevant agencies of Nepal. The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Emergency Situations of Armenia was informed from Nepal, that they don’t need rescuers, as well as they have not the opportunity to accept our rescuers, but, If Nepal needs other support and they contact us, of course, The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Emergency Situations of the Republic of Armenia will take the appropriate steps to provide the required assistance," the Ministry informed.

Previously, it was reported that International aid has started arriving but there is still huge need - 1.4 million require food aid, the UN said.

As reports “Armenpress” citing BBC, the 7.8-magnitude quake hit Nepal on Saturday destroying buildings in Kathmandu and severely affecting rural areas across the region.

The death toll has risen to 4,310, with almost 8,000 injured, officials say.

Nepal and surrounding areas have continued to experience aftershocks. Thousands in Kathmandu, Nepal's capital, spent a third night outside, too afraid to go back into their houses.

Water, food and electricity are in short supply and there are fears of outbreaks of disease.

"According to initial estimations and based on the latest earthquake intensity mapping, eight million people in 39 districts have been affected, of which over two million people live in the 11 severely affected districts," said the most recent report from the UN Office of the Resident Co-ordinator.

The situation is critical in the remote rural regions towards the epicentre of Saturday's quake.

"In the rural areas, 90% of the people have been affected by this calamity," Surya Mohan Adhikari, an official in the district of Gorkha, close to the epicentre, told AP news agency. "They have lost their homes and livestock, they have no way of getting food."

"It is very difficult to reach them," he added. "They are cut off by landslides on the mountain roads, and the wind and rain is making it difficult for helicopters to land."

Aid agency Oxfam says it is using land routes to get aid in and hopes to reach the epicentre region on Tuesday.

This camp had been set up on a playground and even now there are quite a few children playing. But it no longer resembles a safe place. There's rubbish everywhere, paper plates, wrappers and plastic glasses are strewn all over.

"It's getting quite bad," says one man who is here with his wife and four daughters. "We've been here for three days and we've been living on instant noodles. There's nothing else to eat."

His house is not badly damaged, but he is adamant that he will not go home despite the challenging conditions in the camp.

"We've heard all these rumours about more earthquakes and aftershocks. We will not leave this place, not for a while."

The Nepal government has pleaded for overseas aid - everything from blankets and helicopters to doctors and drivers.
</text>