<url>
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/apr/28/nepal-earthquake-aid-food-trucks-villages-humanitarian-crisis
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Aid reaches Nepal's hardest hit – but millions more wait for help
</headline>

<text>
Food trucks arrive in areas hit hardest by earthquake as Nepal’s prime minister says country is on a ‘war footing’

The scale of the humanitarian crisis engulfing eight million people in Nepal came starkly into view as the first food trucks rolled into one of the districts hardest hit by Saturday’s earthquake.



Nepal's PM says quake death toll could reach 10,000 Read more

On Tuesday, hours after Nepal’s prime minister said his country was “on a war footing” and predicted the death toll from the quake could double to reach 10,000, aid from the UN World Food Programme (WFP) finally reached Gorkha, which had been cut off by landslides for three days.

Helicopters buzzed through the skies above the central district, which is close to the epicentre of the magnitude 7.8 quake, ferrying the injured to clinics and taking emergency supplies back to remote villages. Aid workers who had reached the region said entire villages had been reduced to rubble.



“In some villages, about 90% of the houses have collapsed. They’re just flattened,” said Rebecca McAteer, an American doctor. Udav Prashad Timalsina, the top official for Gorkha, warned that people were not getting food and shelter.

Health workers, meanwhile, fear a major crisis is unfolding among survivors of the quake who are living in the open or in overcrowded tents with no access to sanitation or clean water. By the end of Tuesday, 5,057 people had been confirmed dead and another 10,000 injured.

The UN children’s agency, Unicef, warned that at least 2.8 million children were in urgent need of humanitarian assistance, saying its staff were reporting dwindling supplies of water and food, as well as power failures and downed mobile phone networks.



Facebook Twitter Pinterest Villagers gather as they queue for relief supplies. Photograph: Athit Perawongmetha/Reuters

The WFP estimates that 8 million people have been affected by the quake, of whom 1.4 million are in urgent need of food assistance. The agency was planning to begin distributing rice in Gorkha on Wednesday before dispatching a UN helicopter to fly high-energy biscuits and other emergency rations to those in more remote villages.



It has diverted food from its existing programmes in Nepal and bought another 2,000 tonnes of food locally and in India to help it meet demand.

Pippa Bradford, WFP’s country director and representative in Nepal, said staff were doing all they could to mitigate the impact of the disaster.



'No one has come': Nepal villagers wait for aid to flow beyond the capital Read more

“Despite their own personal tragedies and difficult working conditions, our Nepali staff and their international colleagues are working flat out to help those in need of humanitarian assistance,” she said.

“Time is of the essence to get food to those who urgently needed it.”

But elsewhere in Nepal, the wait continued. In the village of Barkobot, in Sindhupalchowk district – just an hour and a half on good roads from Kathmandu – every single one of the 75 houses in the village has been severely damaged or totally destroyed. No one had received any help from the government by Tuesday night.

Where neat stone and mud houses once stood, there were just piles of rubble. The entire village was living outdoors, under canvas, corrugated metal sheets or just the shade of a tree.

“No one is coming to help us,” said Sangita Giri. “There is a child [buried] over there, but neither the army or police have arrived to help.”



The fate of Barkobot is repeated again and again across the district. Ram Chandra, a police constable in Dolaghat, half an hour down the mountain from Barkobot, said: “Almost everyone in the district has been displaced, except in the [towns]. No one in the villages are still in their homes. No aid has reached here. The first priority is to get tents and food. I have lost my own home and haven’t heard from the rest of my family yet.”



Rashmita Shashtra, a health worker from Swarathok village in Sindhupalchowk district, said: “They should have been prepared. We knew this was coming. People had warned them. There were landslides last year and frequent tremors. The international community should have helped the government prepare, too.”

Facebook Twitter Pinterest Barkobot where every home has been severely damaged or completely destroyed. Photograph: Pete Pattison/Guardian

Although some aid is beginning to trickle in, it is not coming from the government.

Ganesh Koju and three friends arrived from Kathmandu with a car full of food for friends and family stranded up in the hills.

“If the government was doing its job, we wouldn’t have to be here,” said Koju. “All the relief is still at the airport. The government haven’t done anything.”

In Kathmandu, aid workers at the WFP’s new humanitarian staging area – a depot-cum-command centre that was, fortunately, completed a month ago – are trying to take some of the strain off Tribhuvan international airport.

With their own offices yet to receive the structural all-clear, WFP staff are working from their new base two minutes’ drive from the airport.

The facility was built to help expedite the flow of aid in the event of a natural disaster.

“Aid is coming in,” said Alex Marianelli, a regional logistics officer at WFP’s Asia bureau.

“It’s not coming in as fast as everyone would like because there’s a lot of congestion and people are having trouble landing at Tribhuvan, which is a small airport after all. There roads are still being cleared to a lot of the affected areas, but we’re able to move to some of them.”

Search teams in Kathmandu rescued a man on Tuesday who had been trapped for 80 hours in the rubble of a collapsed apartment block. A Nepali-French search and rescue team pulled Rishi Khanal, 28, from the second floor of a seven-storey building.

“It seems he survived by sheer willpower,” said Akhilesh Shrestha, a doctor who treated him. Khanal had been on the second floor of the building when the quake struck. The top floors were intact and the teams drilled down to him after he shouted for help and responded to questions in Nepali.

Nepal earthquake: how to donate Read more

The UN said it was releasing $15m (£9.8m) from its emergency fund to help relief efforts. The total amount needed to tackle the crisis, however, is far higher: the WFP says providing food to the 1.4 million people most in need will cost $116.5m (£76m) over the next three months.

Asked whether the international community should have helped with disaster preparedness before the earthquake, Michael Kugelman, south Asia expert from the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, said: “In an ideal world, yes. The problem is that Nepal’s needs for better infrastructure and disaster-proof buildings are so overwhelming, and the government’s capacities to absorb aid and to carry out projects so low, that I imagine that many donors simply didn’t see this as a sufficiently compelling investment.



“Nepal receives no shortage of foreign aid; its economy is highly dependent on it. But for many donors, the idea of providing large amounts of aid to a capacity-constrained government to address potential, not actual, contingencies, was simply too risky. Of course now, with hindsight, this sounds like a pretty lousy decision to have made.”
</text>