<url>
http://www.owensoundsuntimes.com/2015/04/28/distant-earthquake-hits-close-to-home
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Distant earthquake hits close to home
</headline>

<text>
Robin Pradhan’s sister’s house in Kathmandu collapsed when Saturday’s deadly magnitude-7.8 earthquake hit Nepal.

Kripa, her husband and their two children are now living in a makeshift tent on the city’s streets, along with thousands of others in the country’s capital whose homes were destroyed or damaged in the quake.

Pradhan’s brother Rossan and his family of four was also left homeless after their home in nearby Chitwan was severely damaged.

Pradhan, who operated Rocky Raccoon Cafe in Owen Sound and still owns the downtown building, said some of his friends in his home country died in the quake — the official death toll has surpassed 4,000 people — while others are still missing.

“It’s very, very grim. And the total devastation isn’t even known yet. There are reports that entire villages have collapsed,” he said Monday in an interview.

More than a dozen countries, including Canada, have offered aid to Nepal.

The Canadian government, which has already committed $5 million in financial assistance and sent its Disaster Assistance Response Team to the Asian country, has said it will match dollar-for-dollar all donations to the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund until May 25.

Locally, people can drop off donations at the Canadian Red Cross office at 888 15th St. ‘A’ E. in Owen Sound. The organization is among the agencies helping on the ground in Nepal, said local disaster management co-ordinator Ryan Maeck.

Pradhan, who is in the Muskoka District where he is working as a sous chef, said he has been asked by many people in Grey-Bruce how they can help the people of Nepal.

Aside from money, which he said should be donated to reputable charities, he said tents, sleeping bags and blankets are needed.

He has decided to collect those things, which people can drop off at his former restaurant on 2nd Ave. E.

He said he will then take them to a Jet Airways plane, as the company has offered to transport relief materials to Nepal free of charge for the next week.

“Everybody is just on the street and I tried to understand what is needed — medical, water, food. Tents are a priority because it’s raining right now, it’s cold in the nighttime and it will give them a sense of security as well and a sense of privacy,” he said.

Pradhan left Nepal to come to Canada when he was 16 years old, but he recently opened an office in Kathmandu that imports and distributes water purification systems, manufactured by Guelph-based Wyckomar UV.

He returned from his most recent trip to Nepal on April 10.

He said after the earthquake, he donated all five of the purification units that were already at his office to help the people of Nepal.

Owen Sound resident Jill Umbach, who lived in Nepal from 1993 to 1999 and worked as a humanitarian aid worker there, said she suggests people wanting to donate money support the aid agencies that already have a presence in Nepal.

That includes the charities that make up the Humanitarian Coalition — CARE Canada, Save the Children, OXFAM and Plan Canada.

“They have Nepalese staff on the ground that are trained for health and medical as well as water and sanitation and disaster management,” she said.

“There’s also the Canadian Red Cross. It partners with the Nepal Red Cross. They’ve got trained staff.”

Umbach, the co-ordinator of the Bruce Grey Poverty Task Force, was a regional manager for CARE Canada from 1999 to 2004, at which time she covered the programming for Nepal.

Her daughter, Zara, 9, was born in Kathmandu.

Umbach has family and friends in the country. Her closest family and friends are OK, she said, but she is still trying to locate people.

“What I’m hearing on the ground right now is people are staying outside so there is a need for shelter, there is a need for tents. There is a need for water and sanitation. That’s going to be a big issue. Best of times, Nepal was never great for clean water any ways. Now it’s going to be 10 times worse,” she said.

The earthquakes are continuing, she added.

“These are not minor aftershocks that are scaring people, these are major ones that can do more damage.”
</text>