<url>
http://www.therecord.com//news-story/5589598-nepalese-canadians-to-hold-vigil-in-downtown-guelph/
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese-Canadians to hold vigil in downtown Guelph
</headline>

<text>
Tulsi Paudel and Rajan Chhatkuli, both members of the Guelph Nepalese Society's board of directors, have also been spreading the word to educate the public about what's been happening in their home country. Working alongside Gurugharana and Panta, the four will be hosting a candlelight vigil on Monday at 7 p.m. in front of City Hall on Carden Street. Attendees are encouraged to bring donations for the Guelph Nepalese Society. These funds will then be handed over to the Canadian Non-Resident Nepali Association to support relief efforts in Nepal.

There are nearly 300 Nepalese-speaking people in the City of Guelph, Chhatkuli said. Roughly 65 of them are members of the Nepalese Society. He himself came to Canada in 2012 from Kathmandu while much of his family stayed in Nepal.

The death toll from the earthquake was reported at more than 4,000 by Monday afternoon and is expected to rise as response teams travel beyond Kathmandu to the surrounding villages. Chhatkuli said he hasn't heard from anyone in the city with family members who were killed in the disaster, but he said many people in the country are still unaccounted for.

Gurugharana said he remembers living in Kathmandu and seeing the incredible pace of development before leaving in 2012. Many people were moving into the city and houses were being built at an incredible pace, he said. But they weren't good quality, he added. This is why so many of them came down.

He said fortunately, the earthquake took place on a Saturday, as opposed to any other day of the week. For families in Kathmandu, Saturday is typically spent as a day of rest, comparable to Sunday in North America, Gurugharana said. Many families would be out of their homes at shopping centres, or at temples. Children would be with their parents and likely outside of their school buildings.

"That saved many lives," he said.

He said his friends and family still in Nepal have reached out to him over Facebook to request tents and blankets for the many that are now homeless. Gurugharana said he would be shipping whatever items he can collect to an agency in Nepal in a week or so. He said anyone in the community who has items to donate is welcome to contact him at 519-500-3629.

The Guelph Nepalese Society has also set up a bank account to support the Non-Resident Nepali Association. For those who would like to donate, it is a checking account at TD Bank: 0156-5234110.

Anyone looking for more information about future events in response to the earthquake, visit the Guelph Nepalese Society Facebook page, or email guelphnepalisamaj@gmail.com.

News services
</text>