<url>
http://www.postregister.com/articles/featured-news-daily-email/2015/04/27/ui-if-grad-student%E2%80%99s-family-displaced-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
UI-IF grad student’s family displaced in Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Around noon Saturday, Jivan Khatry logged into Facebook as usual — and his world was turned upside down.

Khatry, a 31-year-old Nepal-native currently working on a nuclear engineering doctorate degree at the University of Idaho’s Idaho Falls campus, saw a flood of postings on his news feed about a 7.8 magnitude earthquake which struck that morning near his hometown of Kathmandu.

Several of his Facebook friends had marked themselves as “safe in the Nepal Earthquake” using the social media site’s “Safety Check” feature, and another friend had sent him a personal message seeking advice.

Stunned, Khatry soon went to news websites including BBC News to get more information.

“(Growing up) I remember watching the news in Nepal and there was always talk about a potential earthquake to hit the country,” Khatry said, noting massive earthquakes have struck Nepal every 70 to 80 years. “I remember my dad telling me, ‘If an earthquake comes, get ready to hide under your bed, go to the lowest floor — those kinds of things.”

“So when I heard the news, I said, ‘You know what, I’m ready to say goodbye to my family if they’ve indeed lost their lives,” he continued. “I’m ready to bid farewell to them and move on.”

Luckily, Khatry didn’t have to do that. He spoke to his brother that evening who confirmed Khatry’s immediate family members were alive. Unfortunately, Khatry’s childhood home — a white, four-story house which had been in his family for generations — is in ruins.

Khatry said his parents are living in tents near their destroyed home.

“I’m glad my parents are safe and my brother and his spouse are safe, but at the same time, I’m sad to see that house gone,” he said. “It has been around for 60 years, with so many of my dad’s collectibles, my grandfather’s collectibles and my mom’s collectibles. Any history of my family that was in the house is lost — I mean, it’s all under the rubble.”

As of Monday afternoon, at least 4,000 people were confirmed dead, according to the Associated Press, including at least 18 people on Mount Everest, due to an avalanche triggered by the quake. Thousands more have been reported injured and officials said the death toll is expected to rise. The United Nations reports that about 8 million people have been affected by the quake and more than 1.4 million need food assistance, according to a U.S. News and World Report article.

Khatry said he has not received word of any friends or distant family members who’ve died, but he has not been able to confirm their status either way. He is now working to stay in touch as best as possible, and is staying immersed in his graduate studies to keep his mind occupied.

“In some ways, I wish I could be back with my family but in another way, I know that even if I go there, there’s not much I can to do help them,” he said. “I pretty much just have to focus on my life here … It’s Mother Nature and I don’t have any control over that. All I can do is hope for the best.”

Reporter Kirsten Johnson can be reached at 542-6757.
</text>