<url>
https://in.news.yahoo.com/pm-modi-humane-enough-extending-assistance-nepal-ncp-054725714.html
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
'PM Modi has been humane enough in extending assistance to Nepal': NCP
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi, Apr. 28 (ANI): Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Majeed Memon on Tuesday praised the steps taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government to assist earthquake-hit Nepal where the death toll has climbed to over 4,300.

"All the MPs have appreciated the efforts of the Government of India and particularly the honourable Prime Minister of India that he has been prompt enough, effective enough and humane enough in extending all possible assistance from this great country of ours to the small country Nepal, which has to face this natural calamity with such a severity that thousands of people have lost their lives," Memon said.

"We are on our toes to extend to them all possible help in whatever nature to the Nepalese people and the Nepali Government. And in that context, we have appreciated the steps taken by the Government of India," he added.

At least 4,352 bodies have reportedly been recovered so far after Saturday's devastating earthquake, which measured 7.9 on the Richter scale.

There is an acute shortage of food, water, electricity and medicines in Nepal. The locals in Kathmandu and other adjoining areas are spending their nights in the open as they fear another quake.

Hundreds of people are still trapped under tonnes of rubble in Kathmandu and some of the worst-affected remote mountainous areas in the quake-ravaged country.

India is doing everything possible to maximise the relief and minimise the tribulations faced by the neighbouring nation.

More than 700 disaster relief experts drawn from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed by India, which has mounted massive relief operations as part of 'Operation Maitri'. Relief material weighing 8,200 kilograms were distributed by choppers and the Indian Air Force.

India has also sent a team of senior officials from the ministries of Home, Defence, External Affairs and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to co-ordinate the rescue and relief operations.The team is monitoring the evacuation of stranded Indians in Nepal. Nearly 5,400 Indians have been brought back so far.

The calamity, one of the worst in over 80 years in Nepal, was followed by 55 aftershocks. (ANI)
</text>