<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-04/28/c_134190960.htm
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Australian military called to Nepal to evacuate stranded Australians - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
CANBERRA, April 28 (Xinhua) -- Australia's military will airlift Australians stranded in Nepal following Saturday's devastating earthquake, Australia's foreign minister announced on Tuesday.

Julie Bishop said in a statement that in light of the difficult circumstances on the ground in Nepal, the Australian government would assist with the evacuation of Australians through chartered flights to Bangkok on military aircraft.

Highly vulnerable Australians will be given priority on the flights but the scheduling of the first flight remains in the hands of officials at Kathmandu airport and the local government.

The airport in the Nepalese capital is open but there are lengthy delays and some scheduled flights have been affected.

"The timing and frequency of the flights will be subject to capacity constraints at Kathmandu airport and approval by the Nepalese government," Bishop said.

"I encourage Australians still in Nepal to continue to pursue all available commercial flight options to leave the country."

Bishop also outlined Australia's role in humanitarian aid efforts as Nepal reels from the 7.8 magnitude quake that has killed at least 4000 people.

"Australia will send additional humanitarian experts to Kathmandu, including a small number of medical personnel to assist health coordination and needs assessments in the wake of the earthquake."

"A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) disaster expert will also join the United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination team."

Further humanitarian relief supplies will be delivered by the Australian Defence Force aircraft on its arrival in Nepal, including much-needed water purification and hygiene kits, shelter and blankets.

Australia announced on Sunday an initial 3.8 million U.S. dollar aid package in life-saving humanitarian assistance. A fifth of this money will be allocated to the World Health Organization to procure urgently needed medical supplies.

One Australian, Melbourne mother-of-two Renu Fotedar is the only Australian confirmed dead as a result of the Nepalese earthquake.

The 49-year-old, who was born in Kashmir in northern India, was at Mount Qomolangma Base Camp when it was engulfed by an avalanche. At least 17 other people at Base Camp with Fotedar were also killed in the deadliest disaster in Mount Qomolangma's history.

Scores of Australians remain unaccounted for with communications in the country wiped out.
</text>