<url>
http://www.merinews.com/article/nepal-india-earthquake-update-death-toll-rises-to-4352-in-nepal-66-dies-in-india/15906057.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal, India earthquake update: Death toll rises to 4352 in Nepal; 66 dies in India
</headline>

<text>
The death toll in Nepal after the devastating earthquake on April 25 has risen to around 4352. As per the latest reports coming in 8063 people are reportedly injured in the earthquake.

The earthquake has also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 17 climbers, including foreigners. This is the worst disaster on the world's highest peak till now.

Reports say that fresh tremors were felt in the earthquake ravaged Nepal yesterday. As soon as the aftershocks were felt people rushed out of their houses to open grounds. They are forced to spend past few nights after the earthquake in either tents in open or under the sky. People are seen sleeping on pavements, roads and in parks also.

There are also reports that people in Nepal are unhappy, angry saying that the pace of relief and rescue operation is slow. Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has also admitted that the rescue operations are not effective to the level they should have to be. It is said that the rescue operations are moving on a slow pace due to the power blackouts in the capital city of Kathmandu and supply shortages.

The hospitals in Nepal are overloaded with patients. There is shortage of water, power and food, fear of water-born diseases is also getting stronger. The Indian rescue forces have set up RO plants in Nepal to provide safe drinking water to the victims of this tragedy.

The international aids have also began to arrive in the Himalayan nation. India is the first foreign organization to arrive in Nepal to help in the search and rescue effort.

Meanwhile the northeast part of the India felt fresh aftershocks yesterday around 6.05 pm. The magnitude was 5.1 on Richter Scale and epicentre was Mirik near Darjeeling district in West Bengal state.

The Indian Met Department has asked people not to get panic as such aftershocks may continue to occur but with of low intensity.

The Saturday's earthquake had a large impact over the Indian states Bihar, UP, West Bengal also. So far 66 people have died and 288 have been found injured with maximum deaths happening in Bihar where 51 persons have died and 173 getting injured.

In UP 12 died, 70 injured, in West Bengal 2 died and 35 injured and in Rajasthan one person has died with 7 others have got injured in earthquake. The government has deployed five teams of NDRF in Bihar and one team in UP to take care of relief and rescue operations.
</text>