<url>
http://www.geelongadvertiser.com.au/news/geelong/nepal-earthquake-geelong-region-teens-injured-in-avalanche/story-fnjuhovy-1227323608708?sv=968c3a4928059c20710f9a40e2b2d024
</url>

<date>
20150428
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Geelong and Colac region teens injured in avalanche
</headline>

<text>
TEENAGERS Camille Thomas and Grace Graham are lucky to be alive after being battered for hours by ice and rocks in a Nepal avalanche.

The former Colac Trinity College students were on the Langtang track, just north of the capital Kathmandu, when the devastating earthquake struck on Saturday, claiming the lives of more than 3200 people.

The 18-year-old friends were travelling in Nepal as part of their gap year.

GEELONG TRAVELLERS SAFE

Camille, of Apollo Bay, has a fractured back and head injury, while Grace, of Birregurra, has severe frost bite on both feet and a badly twisted ankle.

Both girls have been discharged from hospital to make room for people who are critically injured, and are now staying in the home of a Nepalese friend of the Thomas family.

Camille’s mother, Cate Thomas, said the Australian Government should be evacuating the girls and other Australians from ravaged Nepal, but appeared to be doing little to help.

The girls recounted their ordeal when they finally managed to make contact with their families in the early hours of Monday morning, Ms Thomas said.

Aid Workers Struggle to Reach Remote Nepal Areas 3:33 Thousands of homes and schools were destroyed in Gorkha, Nepal near the earthquake's epicenter. Sean Casey of the International Medical Corps speaks to the WSJ's Deborah Kan from Gorkha on the difficulties of reaching victims and providing care. Aid Workers Struggle to Reach Remote Nepal Areas

“They were battered for about four hours. First they were just running and running from it all and then Camille was hiding under a rock. She got hit in the head by a falling rock so she has a slight head injury and she’s also got a fractured back. They were hiding for hours because it all just kept on coming — a constant barrage of landfalls and rocks and ice and avalanche,” she said.



Camille had been discharged from the Kathmandu teaching hospital without pain relief or a back brace, Ms Thomas said.

MUM DIES ON EVEREST

Ideally, the teen should be kept immobile until the full extent of her spinal injury was known but that was impossible under the current circumstances, she said.

“She’s alive and we’re just incredibly grateful for that. We can deal with everything else,” Ms Thomas said.

Camille told radio 3AW “snow and rocks and houses” descended in the avalanche which followed the earthquake.

“All you could see was snow coming, coming, coming,” she said.

The surrounding area was blanketed with snow after the quake, which destroyed villages around Lantang, Camille said.

media_camera Luke Deigan

“From where we were, there was nothing you could see. All the villages were gone,” she said.

Family and friends of Geelong brothers Luke Deigan, 23, and Matthew Deigan, 25, have also received welcome news the boys are safe.

A third brother, James Deigan, 22, was also in Nepal until Wednesday of last week.

All three boys attended Belmont High School.

Other Geelong travellers who have made contact with family, friends or aid organisations to let them know they are safe are former Cats skipper Damian Bourke, Steve Beatty, Kate Goldie and Richard Jaroszczuk.

Luke and Matthew Deigan’s mother, Sue McLachlan, said Matthew had contacted his wife and Luke had made contact with his girlfriend.

It appeared neither of the boys were injured but it was not known if they had food, water or a place to sleep, she said.

Before hearing from the boys, she was beside herself with worry.

“Your mind races. It’s just awful not knowing. Awful,” Ms McLachlan said.

She said the boys were shocked by the absolute devastation in Kathmandu.

Ms Thomas said she was “numb” for two days waiting to hear from Camille.

“I couldn’t even allow myself to think. I just wanted to hear her voice,” she said.

“Now we just want to get them back here - we just want them out of there.”

The Australian government needed to do more to help Australians currently in Nepal get home, Ms Thomas said.

“They’re saying you need to rely on your own insurance and I think that’s OK if you’re in a motorbike accident in Bali but not if you’re part of a massive, natural disaster and there’s many Australians involved,” she said.

“I find it extraordinary that they are not supporting our own people and not taking the pressure off Nepal by getting our population out of there.”

Ms McLachlan supported the call, saying she wanted to get her boys home as quickly as possible.
</text>