<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68134058/nepal-quake-man-pulled-alive-from-rubble-after-80-hours-trapped
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Man pulled alive from rubble after 80 hours trapped
</headline>

<text>
Nepal quake: Man pulled alive from rubble after 80 hours trapped

Rishi Khanal is taken out of a collapsed building by police and the French rescue team.

A search and rescue team pulled a man from a collapsed apartment block in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu on Tuesday after he had spent around 80 hours in a room with three dead bodies.



Rishi Khanal, 28, appeared to have had no access to food or water during his ordeal, which began at midday on Saturday when a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal, destroying buildings and killing at least 4,600 people.





Rishi Khanal looks around at the surroundings as he is pulled from the rubble of a building after four days : Reuters



"It seems he survived by sheer willpower," said Akhilesh Shrestha, a doctor who treated him.



Khanal had been on the second floor of a seven-storey building when the quake struck. The top floors were intact and the teams drilled down to him after he shouted for help and responded to questions in Nepali.



The rescue carried out by a Nepali-French team took five hours. Doctors think he may have a broken leg.









Rishi Khanal arrives at a hospital in Kathmandu. Photo: Reuters

Death toll rises

It comes as the death toll for the devastating earthquake topped 5000.



Hungry and desperate villagers have rushed towards relief helicopters in remote areas of Nepal, begging to be airlifted to safety.



"The ground keeps shaking, even this morning it did. Every time it feels like we will be swallowed, that we will die now. I want to get out of here!" said Sita Gurung, 24, whose home had been wrecked.

Peter Drury / Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY / Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ Peter Drury PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/Fairfax NZ PETER DRURY/ Fairfax NZ Women walk past collapsed buildings from the powerful earthquake that took place on April 25. Local people run into the streets to avoid from collapsing buildings during the powerful 7.9 quake on April 25. An injured Buddhist Monk is carried away in a blanket after the powerful 7.9 earthquake shook Nepal on April 25th. Motorcycles buried under collapsed buildings in Kathmandu's Durbar Square following the earthquake on April 25. A woman and her child scramble away from collapsing buildings during a powerful aftershock following the earthquake on April 25. People take refuge in a open plaza near Kathmandu's Durbar Square in the wake of the earthquake on April 25. People take refuge in a open plaza as a young boy is in tears near Kathmandu's Durbar Square following the earthquake on April 25. High-rise buildings lean against on each other near Kathmandu's Thamel district following the earthquake on April 25. People take refuge in a open area near Kathmandu's Durbar Square following the earthquake on April 25. A woman walks past collapsed buildings in the Thamel district following the earthquake on April 25. People take refuge in a open plaza near Kathmandu's Durbar Square following the earthquake on April 25. Locals walk past collapsed buildings near the Thamel district following the earthquake on April 25. A digger lifts walls of a collapsed building to free trapped people or recover bodies after a powerful 7.9 earthquake on April 25. A woman and her child scramble through a collapsed stupa downed in the powerful 7.9 earthquake on April 25. Army and rescuers stand near bodies recovered from collapsed buildings in Kathmandu following the earthquake on April 25. Soldiers clear away bricks from collapsed buildings near Kathmandu's Durbar Square following the earthquake on April 25. Search and Rescue workers from India investigate a collapsed building following the earthquake on April 25. 1 of 17 « Previous « Previous Next » Next »

As the Himalayan nation's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said getting help to remote areas was a "major challenge", aid finally began reaching areas that had to fend for themselves since Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake.

In a televised address late Tuesday, Koirala declared three days of national mourning for the 5057 people known to have perished in Nepal alone.



A woman suffering two broken legs from Saturday's massive earthquake, arrives by helicopter from the heavily-damaged Ranachour village. Photo: AP

More than 100 people died in neighbouring countries such as India and China.

Around 8000 people had been injured while the United Nations estimated that eight million people had been affected.

* Please, DONATE to the Stuff.co.nz Nepalese recovery fund.

Neighbours leading relief efforts

Countries far and wide have joined the relief effort in what is one of Asia's poorest countries, with neighbouring India playing a leading role.

In Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, terrified residents ran with outstretched arms towards an Indian army helicopter to plead for food and water.

An AFP journalist on board saw scores of houses across several villages in the district turned into twisted mounds of wood and corrugated tin roofs.

"We haven't had any food here since the earthquake," Gurung told AFP.

Koirala told an emergency all-party meeting the government was sending desperately needed tents, water and food supplies to those in need.

But he said authorities were overwhelmed by appeals for help from remote Himalayan villages.

"Appeals for rescues are coming in from everywhere," a statement from Koirala's office quoted him as saying.

"But we have been unable to initiate rescue efforts in many areas at the same time due to lack of equipment and rescue experts."

The United Nations said it was releasing $US15 million ($A19.09 million) from its emergency fund to help relief efforts while the World Food Program said it aimed to get food aid to 1.4 million people over the next three months.

Australia said it was raising its level of aid to $A6 million and sending a military plane to bring in relief supplies and evacuate stranded citizens.

But lack of space at the only international airport was hampering efforts to bring in relief by air.

A state of emergency

Nepal has declared a state of emergency after the disaster, its deadliest in more than 80 years.

Families who work in Kathmandu were packing onto buses - some even sitting on the roofs - in an exodus from the city.

Those who remained in the capital were sleeping outdoors in tents in parks and other open spaces. Many had lost their houses, others were too terrified to return home after several powerful aftershocks.

With just plastic sheets to protect them from the elements, many were desperate for aid and information on what to do next.

"We've been staying here for three days, living under canvas. We're counting every bite we eat, every drop we drink," said 28-year-old housewife Rama Shrestha, who was camping out with her five-year-old son.

Hospitals have been overwhelmed, with morgues overflowing and medics working flat out to cope with an endless stream of victims suffering trauma or multiple fractures.

- Reuters
</text>