<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/nepal-quake-kathmandu/1814772.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Kathmandu struggles as rescue efforts continue
</headline>

<text>
On Day 5 of search and rescue operations in Nepal, Channel NewsAsia's Anand Krishna, Taufex Khamid and Steve Clark visited several districts in Kathmandu to see how the city is coping in the earthquake's aftermath.

KATHMANDU: The people of Nepal are trying to get back on their feet days after a powerful 7.8-magnitude earthquake left more than 5,000 dead. While search and rescue operations carry on apace, residents in parts of Kathmandu on Wednesday (Apr 29) attempted to regain some semblance of normality by going about their daily affairs.

Channel NewsAsia's team spent the day visiting several districts in the capital where humdrum scenes of daily life stood in contrast against the grim backdrop of collapsed homes and body bags.



In the Kalopur district of the capital, shops and business were open with fruit sellers and other vendors catering to those eager to stock up on supplies. In Gongabu, the stench of rotting bodies - most of which continued to be trapped under rubble - hung heavy in the air as foreign and local rescue teams pulled victims from collapsed buildings.

Meanwhile, the restlessness of those eager to return to their villages spilled over at the main bus terminus in the capital, where police were deployed to keep crowds under control.

Swift Emergency Evaluation Deployment (SEED) team from Singapore purchasing fruits and drinks for an orphanage they visited about 12km from Kathmandu. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

Advertisement

Advertisement

A semblance of normality returns to the Kalopur district of Kathmandu with shops and business open. (Photo: Taufex Khamid)

A resident in Siphal, Kathmandu stands next to a collapsed building. He described the earthquake as terrifying - rendering him into a state of shock to the extent that he did not even know where he was. (Photo: Steve Clark)

SURVIVOR RESCUED IN GONGABU



“There was one positive story today out of Gongabu,” said Channel NewsAsia’s Steve Clark. “A Nepali rescue team pulled a survivor from the rubble of two collapsed floors of a building.

“Unfortunately the bodies of another two victims were recovered, their body bags still on the street next to the exhausted Nepali recovery team.”

He added: “The stench of death was however still very present in the collapsed hotel building so we can be pretty certain that the Nepali and the Chinese teams, who arrived when we were there, will spend many more hours locating and extricating bodies from that unfortunate hotel.”

Traffic congestion near Gongabu buspark. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

Bad road conditions in Gongabu. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

The Nepal army and police clear a site in Gongabu. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

Channel NewsAsia's Steve Clark and Anand Krishna speak to a rescue worker in Gongabu. (Photo: Taufex Khamid)

Chinese search and recovery teams arrive in Gongabu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

The Chinese rescue team in Gongabu at a site where Nepal army personnel had earlier pulled a survivor from a partially collapsed building. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

A truck carrying police reinforcements arrives at a collapsed building site in Gongabu. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

TIGHT ALLEYWAYS

Gongabu is one of the worst-affected areas in the capital and its distinctive narrow alleyways continue to pose challenges for rescue crews. “Quite a few buildings have collapsed but they had nowhere to fall,” Steve said. “A couple of floors concertina-ed into each other and people in those floors were either trapped or perished. When you walk through these alleyways you turn a corner and are hit with the sharp smell of death.”

Narrow alleyways in Gongabu blocked off by rubble from collapsed buildings. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

Exhausted Nepali armed police force recovery team rest after rescuing a survivor and pulling two bodies from the rubble of a small, collapsed hotel. (Photo: Steve Clark)

Two body bags lie outside a collapsed hotel in Gongabu. (Photo: Steve Clarke)

“EXODUS” FROM KATHMANDU

The main bus terminal in the capital was swamped with people as hundreds try to leave the capital.



“A report emerged saying that riot police had been deployed at Kathmandu's main bus terminal. But it turns out that they were just there for crowd control due to the heavy number of people wanting to leave the capital," Steve said.

“They also arrested three ticket sellers for jacking up the prices and policed the buses as some people were apparently buying one ticket and trying to board the buses with a friend - two people on one ticket.

“The majority of the people trying to leave are not from Kathmandu. Many people come here from outlying districts to find work. They are understandably worried about their families and many of them right now have no work to go to. Businesses are opening up but as one traveller told me ‘I work in a small hotel and the hotel is broken, so, what to do?’"

Rescue personnel stuck in a traffic snarl under an overhead bridge near the bus park. (Photo: Steve Clark)





People waiting to get buses out of Kathmandu, back to their homes. Some are leaving to find jobs elsewhere. (Photo: Steve Clark)







Nepal army personnel regulating crowds at the main bus terminal. (Photo: Anand Krishna)
</text>