<url>
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/world/article/nepal-pm-says-earthquake-death-toll-could-reach-10000
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal PM says earthquake death toll could reach 10,000 (VIDEO)
</headline>

<text>
Nepal PM says earthquake death toll could reach 10,000 (VIDEO)

Rishi Khanal, an injured survivor, is carried on a stretcher by Nepali police after being rescued by French rescue teams from a damaged building following Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 28, 2015. ― Reuters picJHARIBAR (Nepal), April 29 ― People stranded in remote villages and towns across Nepal were still waiting for aid and relief to arrive yesterday, four days after a devastating earthquake destroyed buildings and roads and killed more than 4,600 people.

The government has yet to assess the full scale of the damage wrought by Saturday's 7.9 magnitude quake, unable to reach many mountainous areas despite aid supplies and personnel pouring in from around the world.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told Reuters the death toll could reach 10,000, as information on damage from far-flung villages and towns has yet to come in.

In the Gallery

People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sherpas, climbers, porters and rescue teams help carry a person injured by an avalanche that flattened part of Everest Base Camp, April 26, 2015. — AFP pic



People gather near a collapsed house after a major earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after a major earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A collapsed building is pictured after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. ― Reuters pic



People search for family members trapped inside collapsed houses a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy smiles as he is rescued from a collapsed house after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. — Reuters pic



People cremate the bodies of the victims of an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man cries as he walks on the street while passing through a damaged statue of Lord Buddha a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



A man carrying his belongings searches for a safe place to take shelter after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A family carry their belongings as they rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit on the rubble of a temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, a day after the 7.9 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and devastated Kathmandu valley, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Family members eat their dinner in front of a makeshift shelter on open ground to keep safe after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man fills water from a water tank near a collapsed temple in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A mother and her child sit inside a makeshift shelter in an open ground to keep safe after the earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A girl holds her mother as they stand outside a hospital during a strong aftershock after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A tourist makes his way through the debris of a temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A woman carries her belongings as she walks over collapsed house after earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People displaced after Saturday’s earthquake stand in a queue to get food from a local organisation at an open ground in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo taken on April 26, 2015.— Reuters pic



Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic



Rescue team member from Nepal, Turkey and china works during the rescue operation to rescue live victims trapped inside the collapsed hotel after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepalese army personnel clear the debris of a collapsed house as they carry out rescue operations following Saturday’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Villagers walk past a damaged house where three were killed by the earthquake at Jharibar Village, in Gorkha, Nepal April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy wades through the water next to the burning pyres of people, who died in the earthquake, during the cremation along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 29, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents wait to fill water from hand pump next to damaged houses in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents and volunteers clear debris from a temple following the earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepal military personnel clear the rubble which were destroyed after last week’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic



Earthquake victims carry their belongings as they make their way through a collapsed house at a village in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic

That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake, the last disaster on this scale to hit the Himalayan nation.

“The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing,” Koirala said. “It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal.”

Nepal told aid agencies it did not need more foreign rescue teams to help search for survivors, because its government and military could cope, the national head of the United Nations Development Programme told Reuters.

Experts said the chance of finding people alive in the ruins was slim more than four days after disaster struck.

“After the first 72 hours the survival rate drops dramatically and we are on day four,” said Wojtek Wilk of the Polish Center for International Aid, an NGO which has six medical staff and 81 firefighters in Nepal. “On the fifth day it's next to zero.”

In a rare glimmer of hope, a Nepali-French rescue team pulled a 28-year-old man, Rishi Khanal, from a collapsed apartment block in Kathmandu after he had spent around 80 hours trapped in a room with three dead bodies.

In Jharibar, a village in the hilly Gorkha district of Nepal close to the quake's epicentre, Sunthalia was not so lucky.

Her husband away in India and with no help in sight, she dug for hours in the rubble of her collapsed home on Saturday to recover the bodies of two of her children, a 10-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son.

Another son aged four miraculously survived.

Hundred killed in landslides

In Barpak, further north, rescue helicopters were unable to find a place to land. Yesterday, soldiers had started to make their way overland, first by bus, then by foot.

Army helicopters also circled over Laprak, another village in the district best known as the home of Gurkha soldiers.

A local health official estimated that 1,600 of the 1,700 houses there had been razed. Helicopters dropped food packets in the hope that survivors could gather them up.

In Sindhupalchowk, about 3.5 hours by road northeast of Kathmandu, the earthquake was followed by landslides, killing 1,182 people and seriously injuring 376. A local official said he feared many more were trapped and more aid was needed.

“There are hundreds of houses where our people have not been able to reach yet,” said Krishna Pokharel, the district administrator. “There is a shortage of fuel, the weather is bad and there is not enough help coming in from Kathmandu.”

International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.

According to the home (interior) ministry, the confirmed death toll stands at 4,682, with more than 9,240 injured.

The United Nations said 8 million people were affected by the quake and that 1.4 million people were in need of food.

Nepal's most deadly quake in 81 years also triggered a huge avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 18 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst single disaster on the world's highest peak.

All the climbers who had been stranded at camps high up on Everest had been flown by helicopters to safety, mountaineers reported yesterday.

Up to 250 people were missing after an avalanche hit a village on Tuesday in Rasuwa district, a popular trekking area to the north of Kathmandu, district governor Uddhav Bhattarai said.

Fruit vendors return to streets

A series of aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have complicated rescue efforts in the poor country of 28 million people sandwiched between India and China.

In Kathmandu, youths and relatives of victims were digging into the ruins of destroyed buildings and landmarks.

“Waiting for help is more torturous than doing this ourselves,” said Pradip Subba, searching for the bodies of his brother and sister-in-law in the debris of Kathmandu's historic Dharahara tower.

The 19th century tower collapsed on Saturday as weekend sightseers clambered up its spiral stairs. Scores of people were killed when it crumpled.

Elsewhere in the capital's ancient Durbar Square, groups of young men cleared rubble from around an ancient temple, using pickaxes, shovels and their hands. Several policemen stood by, watching.

Heavy rain late yesterday slowed the rescue work.

In the capital, as elsewhere, thousands have been sleeping on pavements, roads and in parks, many under makeshift tents.

Hospitals are full to overflowing, while water, food and power are scarce.

There were some signs of normality returning yesterday, with fruit vendors setting up stalls on major roads and public buses back in operation.

Officials acknowledged that they were overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster.

“The big challenge is relief,” said Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel, Nepal's top bureaucrat. “We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis.”

India and China, which have used aid and investment to court Kathmandu for years, were among the first contributors to the international effort to support Nepal's stretched resources. ― Reuters
</text>