<url>
http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/7-5-magnitude-earthquake-hits-nepal-aftershocks-reach-india-article-1.2198482
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal kills more than 2,500
</headline>

<text>
Centuries-old landmarks crumbled, avalanches rocked Mount Everest and more than 2,500 people died as Nepal reeled from its most devastating earthquake in 81 years.

The massive Saturday tremor, which lasted for nearly a minute, was followed by more than two dozen aftershocks that rattled the South Asian nation and four neighboring countries.

TheKathmandu area also suffered a 6.7-magnitude quake a day after the initial earthquake, although that aftershock remained concentrated in a roughly 31-mile radius surrounding the Nepalese capital, according to aU.S. Geological Survey reportcited by the Associated Press.

The victims of the terrifying Saturday earthquake included foreign climbers scaling Everest, monks buried in the remains of a collapsed monastery and tourists crushed by the implosion of the 19th-century Dharahara Tower in Kathmandu.

U.S. GOOGLE EXEC KILLED IN MT. EVEREST AVALANCHE CAUSED BY EARTHQUAKE

“Many dead,” read a desperate tweet from trapped mountain climber Alex Gavan of Romania. “Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli(copter) asap.”

Officials warned the death toll was destined to rise as the desperate search for survivors amid the massive rubble turned up more victims.

People stand on top of debris from a collapsed building at Basantapur Durbar Square. (Omar Havana/Getty Images) Emergency rescue workers find a survivor in the debris of the Dharahara tower after it collapsed Saturday in Kathmandu. (PRAKASH MATHEMA/AFP/Getty Images) Volunteers work together to help remove debris of a building that collapsed at Durbar Square in Kathmandu. (Niranjan Shrestha/AP) A young man speaks on the phone in front of a collapsed building in the city center of Kathmandu. (Omar Havana/Getty Images)

PAINFUL VIGIL FOR NEW YORKERS WITH FAMILY IN NEPAL AFTER EARTHQUAKE

The Saturday quake was 16 times more powerful than the destructive 2010 rattler that tore through Haiti. Officials said close to 5,000 people were taken to local hospitals.

Much of the country was without power and water Sunday, although the first deliveries of aid started with the reopening of the Kathmandu airport Sunday. Flights carrying supplies began arriving from nearby India, China and Pakistan.

Indian air force planes brought 43 tons of tents and food and 200 rescuers. Sixty-two members of a Chinese search and rescue team also came Sunday. The United Arab Emirates, Germany and France are also sending supplies.

An avalanche pictured from base camp on Mount Everest caused by the earthquake Saturday. (AZIM AFIF) The earthquake triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest. (AZIM AFIF) An avalanche pictured from a base camp on Mount Everest. (Azim Afif )

Pakistan is also set to bring a 30-bed temporary hospital with army doctors, surgeons and specialists. The country also sent food, medicine, tents, water and other supplies. Vim Tamang, who lived in Manglung village near the earthquake’s epicenter, estimated half its residents were either dead or missing.

“Our village has been almost wiped out,” he said. “Most of the houses are either buried by landslide or damaged by shaking. We don’t know what to do. We are feeling helpless.”

Terrible #earthquake in #Nepal. Just saved ourselves. Don't know how many killed. Roads are blocked already. pic.twitter.com/qsxITz0n1P — Guna Raj Luitel (@gunaraj) April 25, 2015

The death toll from Everest, the world’s highest peak, was set at 17 with another 61 thrillseekers injured and an unknown number of mountaineers and guides still missing.

The nine-story landmark Dharahara Tower, built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, was toppled. Video showed people digging through the wreckage in longshot hopes of finding even one victim alive.

Tens of thousands of people were left homeless, their residences either destroyed or rendered unsound by the hourslong rattling.

The earthquake struck the heavily populated Kathmandu Valley. The quake then rippled outward.

Many hunkered down overnight outdoors on cardboard boxes or plastic sheets, using whatever blankets they could scrounge for warmth while eating cookies and instant noodles.

“It is hard to explain,” said businessman Shirish Vaidya, who ran with his family from their two-story home in the suburbs when the quake hit.

“The house was shaking like crazy,” he said. “We ran out, and it seemed like the road was heaving up and down. I don’t remember anything like this.”

Newer sections of Kathmandu suffered cracked walls and buckled roadways, along with downed power lines. But buildings in the older part of the city — some up to 500 years old — partially or completely collapsed.

The death toll in the capital alone has climbed to 721. The destruction was so extensive that most of the would-be rescuers were amateurs digging through the rubble by hand as the army and police scrambled to handle a plethora of other problems.

“The reports of this devastation are still coming in, and the number of people killed, injured and affected by this earthquake continue to rise,” said United Nations head Ban Ki-Moon.

Scenes from Nepal after earthquake

UNICEF reported at least 960,000 children are in urgent need of humanitarian aid.

Officials reported at least 61 deaths in India, Tibet, Pakistan and Bangladesh from Saturday's earthquake, the worst in Nepal since 1934. At that time, all Nepal’s major cities were reduced to ruins and 8,500 died..

Saturday's earthquake’s power was amplified because it was so close to the surface — just seven miles down. Clouds of dusts swirled madly around the Nepalese ruins.

“It was so powerful and the entire house was shaking, so we go out,” said Silk Gurung, who fled her three-story Kathmandu home with her mother. “Everyone is very scared, and no one knows when it will be safe to go back home.”

Injured survivors were rushed by motorized rickshaws and flatbed trucks to overcrowded hospitals unequipped to handle the carnage.

At the Bhaktapur Hospital on the outskirts of the capital, four dozen bodies were lying in a nearby field. Staffers were treating the overflow of victims in a tent outside the facility.

“It’s chaos here,” staffer Ramesh Pokharel said. Officials had yet to estimate how many people were injured.

Nepal’s Prime Minister Sushil Koirala was unable to reach his stricken country from a summit meeting in Jarkarta while the Kathmandu airport was shut down.

The quake came one week after experts from around the world met to discuss the likelihood of a major Nepal earthquake.

ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH DRONE FOOTAGE VIDEO HERE. ON A MOBILE DEVICE? WATCH AVALANCHE VIDEO HERE.

With News Wire Services
</text>