<url>
http://www.app.com/story/news/local/brick-point-pleasant/brick/2015/04/28/brick-woman-stuck-nepal-earthquake/26549915/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Brick woman fights to save daughter in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Buy Photo Denise Reed’s daughter Vanessa Reed is stranded in Nepal with her boyfriend. (Photo: Bob Bielk/Staff photographer)Buy Photo

UPDATE: Vanessa Reed, the Brick woman stuck in Nepal after its devastating earthquake, told family she and her boyfriend are doing well. They have enough food and water and are avoiding the hardest-hit areas, though they have yet to return home to New Jersey.

BRICK TOWNSHIP --- Waiting to hear whether your daughter survived a massive earthquake in Nepal is bad enough.

Agonizing over how you can get her off the mountain and back home when there is no rescue in sight is even worse.

"I'm just trying to get her back home safely because it sounds like they're getting (exhausted)," said Denise Reed of Brick. "At this point (I am) just trying to figure out what to do and offer some help."

It's been a nerve-racking few days for Denise Reed, whose eldest daughter, Vanessa, landed in Nepal the morning the earthquake hit. Vanessa was there for a two-week vacation with her boyfriend, South Jersey resident Ron Casalnova.

As the toll of dead and injured kept rising, Denise Reed was desperately waiting for word that her daughter had survived the quake.

Finally, a text: "Ron and I are safe on the Everest Base Camp trail. A lot of damage around us. All electricity is out and we have no Internet."

Denise said she didn't realize at first that the message was from her daughter.

"I saw her name, and I'm looking at it. It kind of took a minute to register that this is from her," the mother of three recalled. "We all just burst into tears crying."

What began as an adventure for the New Jersey couple has turned into a nightmare, as they struggled through the aftershocks and cold, heavy rain.

Reed and Casalnova are among the 8 million people affected by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

The death toll has topped 5,000. At least 18 of the dead were killed at Mount Everest as an avalanche resulting from the earthquake buried part of the base camp, not far from where Reed and Casalnova were. Thousands are injured, and tens of thousands more are homeless.

The first text message brought Denise Reed immense relief. Her daughters have used the mobile messaging app WhatsApp to keep in contact in the days since. But she has grown worried about the food and water supplies on the trail.

A recent Instagram post from Casalnova, provided by Denise Reed, says they were trekking in Sagarmantha National Park in Namche when the earthquake hit.

The photograph captured a crowd of people with colorful tents in the Himalayas. The caption beneath said, "have been passing villages searching for power or Internet since. Finally found a signal for the moment in Namche Bazar (between Lulka and Everest)...Aftershocks keep rolling in so the village is camping out to stay away from damaged buildings."

Denise Reed said she called the embassy in Nepal Tuesday morning and asked about rescue efforts near Namche.

Embassy officials said helicopters were not passing near Namche because of the heavy rain.

Vanessa Reed and Casalnova would have to return to Lulka, more than 8 miles away, if they wanted to be rescued.

Nongovernmental organizations such as Mercy Corps are distributing relief kits to areas in and around Kathmandu, including toothpaste, clothing and cooking utensils.

The group aims to reach areas outside of the capital Wednesday, but noted that the rain has stymied their efforts.

It is hard to say whether NGOS would make it out as far as Namche, or what assistance people on the trail were receiving now, Denise Reed said. She has not asked her daughter about it at length, but she knows it is limited.

"Heavy vehicles and helicopters are busy with search and rescue (efforts), and right now are not available for aid delivery to remote villages. We have been hearing that some hill villages, including ones that rely on wells for water, have been destroyed." the press release stated.

All Denise Reed can do is search for information about rescue efforts, halfway across the world.

"They're kind of stranded," she said. "They need assistance to get to the airport."

Contributing: The Associated Press

Read or Share this story: http://on.app.com/1GDqCLN
</text>