<url>
http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/nsw/nepal-earthquake-tent-cities-have-taken-over-the-kathmandu-skyline/story-fni0cx12-1227325961503?nk=09a53633c1becf786657ee3a13575cec
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Tent cities have taken over the Kathmandu skyline
</headline>

<text>
TENT cities have taken over the Kathmandu skyline as locals begin burning the dead and hundreds of Nepalese-Australians make the pilgrimage home to help build shelters for stranded families andfriends.

Red Cross officials have been flown in from across the globe including Australia to work on providing emergency shelters and clean water as the threat of disease looms.

PACKED TO THE RAFTERS STAR HUGH SHERIDAN ARRIVES IN NEPAL

NEPAL EARTHQUAKE: INSIDE KATHMANDU’S DURBAR SQUARE

The Daily Telegraph witnessed thousands of Kathmandu locals sharing orange and blue tents as families cooked meals for each other.

media_camera Local Nepalese have set up makeshift shelters on the street. Picture: Nathan Edwards

After a second night of severe shocks - leaving five-star hotels cracked and forcing tourists to sleep near pools and in lobbies - Kathmandu residents are refusing to return home for fear of further deadly aftershocks.

Large smoke plumes could be seen near the centre of Kathmandu where campsites have been set-up as families cremate the dead.

Luxury resorts were locking their gates after allowing thousands of stranded foreigners and locals to use their facilities.

The Daily Telegraph arrived in Kathmandu alongside Red Cross shelter and water advisers from Australia, members of the elite European search and rescue unit, specialist search dogs, Japanese doctors and Australian-based Nepalese desperate for information on their loved ones.

The devastation and heartache in Kathmandu media_camera A Nepalese policeman walks among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu on April 28, 2015. Hungry and desperate villagers rushed towards relief helicopters in remote areas of Nepal on April 28, begging to be airlifted to safety, four days after a monster earthquake killed nearly 4,500 people. AFP PHOTO / Nicolas ASFOURI 1 of 33 media_camera People watch rescue workers looking for earthquake survivors in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu on April 28, 2015. Hungry and desperate villagers rushed towards relief helicopters in remote areas of Nepal on April 28, begging to be airlifted to safety, four days after a monster earthquake killed nearly 4,500 people. AFP PHOTO / Nicolas ASFOURI 2 of 33 media_camera Women walk through their destroyed village of Paslang near the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake in the Gorkha District of Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Military operations continue Tuesday to reach the isolated areas following the powerful earthquake that has devastated the nation and killed at least 4,400 people, according to district official Surya Mohan Adhikari. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) 3 of 33 media_camera An elderly woman slowly walks over of the rubble of a collapsed home in the destroyed village of Paslang near the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake in the Gorkha District of Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Military operations continue Tuesday to reach the isolated areas following the powerful earthquake that has devastated the nation and killed at least 4,400 people, according to district official Surya Mohan Adhikari. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) 4 of 33 media_camera Two elderly women sit in the evening sun with blankets in the destroyed village of Paslang near the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake in the Gorkha District of Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Military operations continue Tuesday to reach the isolated areas following the powerful earthquake that has devastated the nation and killed at least 4,400 people, according to district official Surya Mohan Adhikari. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) 5 of 33 media_camera Volunteers and quake emergency team members clear debris from one of the UNESCO World Heritage site temples in Basantapur Durbar Square on April 28, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Many houses, buildings and temples in the capital were destroyed during the earthquake, leaving thousands dead or trapped under the debris as emergency rescue workers attempt to clear debris and find survivors.(Photo by Omar Havana/Getty Images) *** BESTPIX *** 6 of 33 media_camera The sun sets over the destroyed village of Paslang village near the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake in the Gorkha District of Nepal, Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Military operations continue Tuesday to reach the isolated areas following the powerful earthquake that has devastated the nation and killed at least 4,400 people, according to district official Surya Mohan Adhikari. (AP Photo/Wally Santana) 7 of 33 media_camera Nepalese victims of the earthquake warm themselves around a bonfire at a makeshift camp at Tunshikel park on April 28, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal. A major 7.8 earthquake hit Kathmandu mid-day on Saturday, and was followed by multiple aftershocks that triggered avalanches on Mt. Everest that buried mountain climbers in their base camps. (Photo by David Ramos/Getty Images) 8 of 33 media_camera Damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha on April 28, 2015. Hungry and desperate Nepalese villagers rushed towards a relief helicopter begging to be airlifted to safety April 28, 2015, after a huge earthquake that has killed at least 4,349 people devastated their remote community. Terrified residents of Lapu in Gorkha, some of the eight million people the UN said were affected by the April 25, 2015 quake, ran with outstretched arms to the Indian army chopper, pleading for much-needed food and water. AFP PHOTO / Sajjad Hussain 9 of 33 media_camera Rescue officials search through rubble in the earthquake damaged area of Bhaktapur on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 28, 2015. Hungry and desperate villagers rushed towards relief helicopters in remote areas of Nepal, begging to be airlifted to safety, four days after a monster earthquake killed nearly 4,500 people. AFP PHOTO/MENAHEM KAHANA 10 of 33 nav_small_close Want to see more?( 23 more photos in collection )Continue to full gallery nav_small_left nav_small_right

Ancient temples and buildings they knew of as children now lie in ruins.

One Nepalese man was returning to search for up to 10 relatives living in a building destroyed by the weekend’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Prajwal Pradhan - known as PJ in Sydney - arrived back to Nepal on the same flight as The Daily Telegraph anxious to reunite with his 11-week-old baby Layla and four-year-old daughter Tiya - both Australian citizens.

His wife Ekta Pant had travelled to Nepal last Thursday to visit her unwell mother before the quake struck.

media_camera Local Nepalese set up makeshift camps. Picture: Nathan Edwards

PJ - an occupational therapist at Ryde Hospital - will spend a month in Nepal offering his services to the strained hospital system struggling to keep up with demand.

Mr Pradhan, whose young family is now living on the streets in fear of dangerous structural conditions, said many Nepalese did not want to be treated inside hospitals fearing fresh quakes.

Gold Coast-based Nepalese Ganesh Subedi immediately returned home after hearing of the destruction in his village.

While Mr Subedi’s family survived the main quake and aftershock in an area just outside Kathmandu, the damage is believed to be severe.

media_camera Local Nepalese sare too frightened to go back into their homes for fear of another quake. Picture: Nathan Edwards

More than 50,000 Nepalese live, study and work in Sydney. Officials and NGOs are working fast to provide make-shift tent cities to accommodate displaced Nepalese.

World Vision and Red Cross have spent the last few days accounting for local and foreign volunteers and workers.

Extra DFAT staffers have also arrived to bolster staff numbers on the ground operating out of the Australian Embassy in Kathmandu.

French, Dutch and Italian search and rescue squads, with up to a dozen dogs, began working in rubble late Monday searching for survivors.

More crews from Korea, Japan and Germany arrived yesterday.
</text>