<url>
http://gazette.com/woodland-park-woman-eager-to-get-home-to-nepal-to-assist-family/article/1550572
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Woodland Park woman eager to get home to Nepal to assist family
</headline>

<text>
Midway through a pastor's sermon Saturday, the Nepalese town of Lamosangu shook with deadly violence, relatives told Ruth Parajuli, of Woodland Park.

Within minutes, the church Parajuli helped create lay in ruins - entombing churchgoers and temporarily trapping Parajuli's sister.

"I am just so exhausted, and so pained, and so hurt," Parajuli said on Tuesday.

As relief efforts continued after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake, some Pikes Peak region nonprofits - including Parajuli's organization, Nepal Missions - sought to regroup.

Parajuli, who moved from Nepal to the United States in 2001, had planned for months to visit Nepal in May on behalf of her nonprofit.

The Christian-based organization offers food, animals and clothing to poor and disabled Nepal residents.

NOTE: See a video about the Nepal Mission below

A handful of friends and fellow churchgoers in Woodland Park planned to join her, but many have since decided to wait until conditions improve.

Parajuli, however, plans to leave May 12 to help rebuild her hometown.

The church she helped create a decade ago in Lamosangu crumbled, possibly killing scores of people, Parajuli said. Eight bodies have been pulled from the rubble, relatives told her, and rescuers can not search further because the debris remains unstable.

Though Parajuli's mother and one sister escaped the church unscathed, another sister, who is disabled, was temporarily trapped. She had an ear torn off and suffered a severe head injury, but is expected to live, Parajuli said.

"I just want to be there," Parajuli said. "I just want to hug those people who hurt and love them, and however I can help, I will help."

Other Pikes Peak region nonprofits also were affected.

ServeNow, headquartered in Colorado Springs, had 12 staff and volunteer members in Nepal during the earthquake, Everyone escaped unscathed, and the organization is helping people in rural areas of the country.

All 20 volunteers with Youth With A Mission, which has a Colorado Springs campus, also survived.

Development Associates International, headquartered in Colorado Springs, had two employees in Nepal when the earthquake struck, and both survived, said Jane Overstreet, the nonprofit's president and chief executive.

The organization offers Christian-based leadership courses and trains about 300 to 350 people a year. Many people attend church on Saturdays in Nepal, and one of the people they trained, a pastor, died along with about 50 other people during one such service, Overstreet said.

"They're trying to figure out how to help others, when in fact their own situation is so difficult," Overstreet said. "So I think just the shock of the situation has really deeply impacted everybody."
</text>