<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Chandigarh/Exporters-to-Nepal-keeping-their-fingers-crossed/articleshow/47103573.cms
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Exporters to Nepal keeping their fingers crossed
</headline>

<text>
LUDHIANA: At a time Nepal is counting the losses caused by the earthquake, the industries that export many products to Nepal are also suffering losses, because their payments have been stuck, and business would take a long time to normalize, further adding to their woes.President, Federation of Indian Export Organizations (FIEO), SC Ralhan, said the tragedy in Nepal was the worst one. He said while on the one hand, it has caused immense loss of lives, it has also hit the export industry in the country badly. He informed that while exports from the country to other parts of the world had seen a downward trend in March, Nepal was the only country to which exports were increasing. In 2012-13, exports to Nepal were Rs16,805 crore, increasing in 2013-14 to Rs21,770 crore, and in 2014-15, they crossed Rs25,000 crore. However, the situation has now changed after the earthquake. "Things should be streamlined within the next two months, and if that does not happen, our losses will increase, as we are already losing Rs2,200 crore every month in exports from the country," said Ralhan.The situation is no different for the industries of Ludhiana, which is the leading manufacturer of cycles in the country, and even the world. President, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, Charanjeet Vishivkarma, informed that over six to seven lakh cycles are exported to Nepal annually from Ludhiana, apart from cycle parts and other products. "Our consignments have been stuck, and we are in no position to ask for our payments from buyers in the earthquake-ravaged country. The cycle industry is already reeling under a crisis, and these earthquakes have further deepened the crisis for us. We have no other option left, but to wait and watch," he said.Chairman, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, Manjeet Singh Khalsa, informed that not only Nepal, but Indian states like Bihar too had been affected, and in some of the states, there are offices of agents who buy cycles from them and sell it in Nepal. "The cycle industry is in a fix as payments have stopped, and getting them now is unlikely. Where the government is helping Nepal, it should also help local industries that have been affected," he added.Chairman, Ludhiana Knitwear Club, Vinod Thapar, informed that fabrics and garments worth over Rs50 crore to Rs60 crores are exported annually to Nepal, and though the hosiery industry is not that badly affected, because of the less quantum of exports, there are some companies involved in exports who are now having a tough time. "We are hopeful the situation will normalize in the coming one or two months. Our heart goes out to the people who have lost their lives, and there are many of our workers also who have lost their property," he said.
</text>