<url>
http://www.news-gazette.com/julie-wurth/2015-04-29/dozens-ui-have-relatives-nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Dozens at UI have relatives in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Other Related Content AUDIO: UI student has family in Nepal earthquake zone

The phone rang several times in the night as Santosh Koirala slept, unaware of what was happening half a world away.

He awoke Sunday to news of the biggest earthquake to hit his native Nepal in 80 years.

Koirala, a UI doctoral student in chemical and biomolecular engineering, immediately called his parents back home but couldn't reach them. Then, like so many other worried families around the globe, he checked Facebook.

"My sister had posted that most of the family members were safe in my hometown" of Pokhara, Nepal, Koirala said Tuesday.

After a few hours, he was able to contact his parents through Viper, an Internet phone service. Several relatives were injured in the 7.8 magnitude earthquake, but overall "we got lucky," he said. The disaster killed at least 5,000 people and injured thousands more.

Koirala and other Nepalese students at the UI are doing what they can to help from afar.

The Nepalese Student Association is launching a fundraising campaign, starting with a collection on the UI Quad today and Thursday. They also plan to put donation boxes at local businesses, encourage online giving to specific charities and collect donations at a free concert planned for Sunday, though the location is still being verified. The goal is to raise at least $15,000.

Students are encouraging online donations to the American Red Cross and the Help Nepal Network, which was established by a Nepalese media person and has chapters around the world, Koirala said.

Some Nepalese students in civil engineering also hope to return to Nepal in May to help with water sanitation projects, he said.

More than 50 Nepalese students, faculty, staff and family members at the UI are affected by the disaster, according to the Nepalese Student Association.

Though Koirala's family home was not destroyed, his parents and three siblings have been sleeping outside in a tent in the back yard, just be safe during dozens of aftershocks that followed Sunday's quake.

Some of his friends in the United States still haven't been able to contact family members in the more remote parts of Nepal.

"The phone lines are not working very well yet," he said. "It's better than the first few hours, but it's still not back to normal."

Still, he said, experts had predicted that the next big quake could kill hundreds of thousands of people. Some said it was fortunate that it hit on a weekend, when thousands of children were not crowded together in schools.

"It could have been a lot worse," Koirala said.

How to help

Donations to the UI's Nepal relief effort can be made:

— In person on the Quad from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. today and Thursday.

— Online through the Help Nepal Network or American Red Cross (Nepal Earthquake Relief)

— Via text to Global Giving: Text GIVE NEPAL to 80088 to donate $10 to Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund. Message and data rates may apply.

Source: Nepalese Student Association, UIUC chapter
</text>