<url>
http://www.vnews.com/home/16693981-95/far-apart-but-coming-together
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese Students at Colby-Sawyer Rally to Support Devastated Homeland
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese Students at Colby-Sawyer Rally to Support Devastated Homeland

New London — Tucked away in a bucolic corner of the Upper Valley, brought together by their academic pursuits at Colby-Sawyer College, is a thriving Nepalese community. About 40 of the school’s 1,350 students are from Nepal. An admissions officer, also a 20 11 graduate, is from Nepal. An American student is currently traveling in the country, and this past January, the college sent students and faculty there in partnership with a Nepalese school.



So while the Upper Valley awoke Saturday morning with shock and sadness to reports that a magnitude-7.8 earthquake had devastated the country — with the resulting death toll soaring into the thousands — the news was met with especially heavy hearts and deep concern on the Colby-Sawyer campus, where Nepalese students rushed to make sure their families were OK.



“It was a lot of chaos Saturday morning here because everyone was trying to get in touch with everyone and because there was no electricity (in Nepal) ... and some of the cellphones had died,” Anurup Upadhyay, a senior business administration major, said on Tuesday. “It was a challenge in the beginning.”



In the days since, however, Upadhyay and others say the community has rallied together, supporting each other and raising more than $3,700 for relief efforts in a student-run fundraiser Monday night. More fundraisers are planned for the days and weeks ahead.



“It hurts them, but they’re persevering,” college President Tom Galligan Jr. said. “I couldn’t be prouder of them.”



The earthquake hit Saturday night Nepalese time, roughly 2 a.m. Upper Valley time. Upadhyay said when he woke up around 7 a.m., his phone was teeming with notifications from his friends here, as well as alerts from Facebook and news sites.



“There were already emails pouring in from our professors. Anyone who had heard of the news was inquiring about if our families were OK,” Upadhyay said.



Meanwhile, a few minutes’ drive away, Assistant Director of Admissions Anup Nepal was at home trying to reach his immediate family in Nepal — parents, grandmother and younger brother — to make sure they had survived. Although they live in one of the less-affected regions, he still was concerned when he received the news around 6 a.m. from a friend in Dallas.



He turned to news sites and then to the phone, trying to get through to his loved ones.



“It took about an hour just to get connection,” he said.



For Upadhyay and Nepal, there was some relief by sundown: After a day of scrambling that also saw Nepalese students coming together to support each other in the campus dining hall, they learned that their families, and those of Colby-Sawyer’s Nepalese community members, were alive.



But the relief was tempered by other kinds of loss. Like many thousands of others in the country, both Upadhyay’s and Nepal’s families slept outside for several nights, fearful of the aftershocks that continued to shake structures. An onslaught of images coming out of the country showed the destruction of cherished monuments and temples, and Upadhyay and Nepal struggled with being a world away while their families dealt with the fallout.



In the Colby-Sawyer dining hall, the mood was somber.



“We were all somewhat silent,” Upadhyay said of the dining hall, who also took part in a vigil on campus Saturday evening. “We were happy that our families weren’t harmed, but at the same time when you look at pictures ... it was not a great feeling.”



Nepal said the feeling of “being here and not being able to be there” was difficult to absorb.



“It’s not a big country, so I have been to most of the places,” Nepal said. “Just seeing the images of all the buildings and the monuments fall, I think that just brings everybody sadness. ... It’s definitely hitting hard.”



What’s more, Upadhyay said that while none of the current Colby-Sawyer students are known to have lost loved ones in the devastation, the family of at least one alumna who lived in a remote region had their home “completely destroyed” and are struggling to access aid.



The alumna, Phurchhoki Sherpa, has started an online fundraising page — www.gofundme.com/t494ck — to restore her village’s destroyed primary school and temple.



“As tempted as I am to raise funds to rebuild my mom’s house, I know that it’s not fair for the other families who lost their homes too, but have no access to raise money,” Sherpa wrote on the page, explaining her decision to raise money for the village’s “lost common properties ... which are just dust and rubble at this point.”



“Remote areas, like my village, are always the last places to receive any funds or aid,” she wrote. “I am not sure if my tiny, isolated village will even get any relief from the government amid all this mess.”



Other current Nepalese students also have set up fundraisers. A Nepalese student group, of which Upadhyay is an active member and Nepal is the adviser, hosted an event on campus Monday night in which it raised $3,691. Upadhyay estimated at least $500 more was donated directly to aid groups via laptops that the student group set up.



Several additional fundraisers are in the works, including a confirmed event on Sunday from 11:15 a.m. to 11:45 a.m. at the St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church on Gould Road, including a brief video presentation, live Nepalese music, sale of Nepalese artifacts and ceramics, and henna tattoos.



Upadhyay said the goal of the upcoming events will be to raise money targeted directly to remote areas, and the students have been researching organizations “already located in remote areas” that struggle to get aid.



While the New Hampshire Attorney General’s Office sent out an alert warning consumers to use good judgment and avoid scams, Upadhyay and Nepal encouraged Upper Valley residents to seek out other reputable avenues of donation, such as through the Red Cross or UNICEF.



“The main thing that everyone should keep in mind is that a dollar from the United States or any other country from a developed world does go a long way in Nepal,” Upadhyay said, “so people should come with an open mind if they are planning to attend future fundraising events at Colby-Sawyer or anywhere ... feel free to even donate a dollar.”



Galligan, the school president, said that it’s been heartening to watch the students’ impressive response to the tragedy, and that non-Nepalese students have shown compassion and understanding because “they’ve learned a lot from the students who come from other countries.” Guidance counselors have been on hand, and while it’s too early to determine whether any of the Nepalese students’ school funding will be affected by the fallout, he said the school is keeping an eye on that situation.



Galligan said the only country that sends more students to Colby-Sawyer than Nepal is the United States, which Upadhyay attributed to good word of mouth from current students and graduates back to their home country.



“It is a sizable population and a very wonderful population,” Galligan said. “I said to a group the other day, ‘10 years ago, Nepal may have seemed far away to me, but now it seems very close because these students have made it so real.’ ”



Nepal said that having a community of Nepalese students around to check in on — and also checking in on him — has been a source of great comfort during a challenging time. The fundraising has been uplifting, too, he said, as his country begins the long, difficult process of trying to recover in the weeks, months and years ahead.



“It’s been great,” he said of the Colby-Sawyer response. “Not being able to be back at home and help, I think that motivated most of the people, myself included, to begin this kind of fundraising event quickly.”



Maggie Cassidy can be reached at mcassidy@vnews.com or 603-727-3220.



Correction



Anup Nepal, the assistant director of admissions at Colby-Sawyer College, graduated from the New London school in 2011. In addition, a fundraiser to aid villages in Nepal damaged by last weekend’s earthquake will be held Sunday at 11:15 a.m. at St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church in New London. Nepal’s year of graduation and the name of the church were incorrect in an earlier version of this story.










</text>