<url>
http://www.nbcmontana.com/news/um-students-from-nepal-plan-fundraiser/32632528
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
UM students from Nepal plan fundraiser
</headline>

<text>
UM students from Nepal plan fundraiser

MISSOULA, Mont. - The earthquake in Nepal has now reportedly claimed more than 5,000 lives. Finding survivors has become a race against time. Late Tuesday night, a 28-year-old man was pulled alive from the rubble more than 80 hours after the quake hit.

For survivors, there was more hardship. Rain and wind hammered tent cities, disease could easily spread and hospitals are out of room. In remote villages, helicopters search and find more destruction.

On Mt. Everest, climbers trapped by the avalanche have been airlifted out.

Some of the devastating effects of the earthquake are being felt right here in Missoula. Two University of Montana graduate students from Nepal want to raise awareness and funds for their home country.

"I was totally scared, because when I came to know that there was a huge earthquake in Nepal and I got a bunch of missed calls, I was totally scared," said UM graduate student Tek Chhetri.

"I felt nervous. Even today, I am feeling very nervous because of their situation," said UM graduate student Shyam Pokhrel.

For Chhetri and Pokhrel, the news was a complete shock. They thought of their families immediately. Poor cell phone connection left both of them wondering and waiting, until they finally found out everyone is OK.

Chhetri says he had to use Facebook to check on his family and friends.

He says people are suffering. "Shortage of food, shortage of water, even there is no electricity," said Chhetri.

That's why both students are doing their best, heading a fundraiser to help their home country.

"They have all the problem but nothing to solve the problem," said Pokhrel.

Some families like Chhetri's and Pokhrel's are living out of tents. The houses aren't safe to be in due to cracks left behind by the earthquake.

"They are feeling scared and they are not able to stay inside," said Pokhrel.

The students will be collecting cash donations, in front of The Source at the University Center on UM's campus for the next three days. They say even a small donation can go a long way.

"Even a little makes more difference," said Chhetri.

For the fundraiser, other material goods will not be collected, just cash. The funds will be delivered to victims through the Red Cross International's Nepalese accounts via the Montana Red Cross office in Great Falls.

The fundraiser takes place from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. starting on Wednesday and will run until Friday.


</text>