<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/patna/Nitish-reviews-relief-ops-in-several-dists/articleshow/47101140.cms
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nitish reviews relief operations in several districts of Bihar
</headline>

<text>
PATNA: Two more aftershocks of mild intensity of 3.8 and 3.5 on Richter scale were recorded on Wednesday at 6.05am and 3.09pm respectively as per the Indian Metereological Department's record. Patna IMD director AK Sen said, "The aftershocks now being recorded are of very mild intensity and there is nothing to be apprehensive. Any tremor below 4 on Richter scale is not of much concern."The thundersquall that hit the state on Tuesday afternoon has claimed 10 lives so far. All the deaths were due to lightning, said principal secretary, state disaster management, Vyasji here on Wednesday.While three people were killed as lightning struck in Lakhisarai district, two died in Muzaffarpur. Jamui, Munger, Rohtas, Bhojpur and Nalanda reported one death each. In Munger, one person was seriously injured in the storm, said disaster management control rooms sources.Meanwhile, CM Nitish Kumar returned to the state capital after reviewing quake relief operations at Raxaul and several other districts. From Raxaul, he went to Bettiah on Wednesday morning and reviewed the preparation of 5,000 food packets to be sent to Nepal daily. He asked the officials present to maintain hygiene. Apart from food, milk powder and water is also being sent to the quake-ravaged areas of the Himalayan kingdom. The milk powder is being sent by Comfed from its Nalanda-based unit, said Comfed marketing officer Rajiv Verma.From Bettiah, the chief minister went to Sitamarhi to review the ongoing relief operations. He held a high-level meeting at Sitamarhi collectorate. Two ministers — Ram Lakhan Ram Raman and Ranju Geeta, a few MLAs, former MPs Nawal Kishore Rai and Arjun Rai, chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, DGP PK Thakur, rural development secretary Pradeep Kumar, Tirhut commissioner Atul Prasad and Sitamarhi DM Dr Pratima were present.Henceforth, Ram Lakhan Ram Raman and rural development secretary Pradeep Kumar will supervise the relief and rehabilitation process for Sitamarhi for at least a fortnight.The CM also visited Nehru Bhavan building at Dumra and saw the packaging of food packets meant for Nepal. He suggested to the DM that milk powder pouch may be added in the food packet.Nitish also expressed satisfaction over the deployment of a group of doctors in block headquarters at Bairgania, Sonbarsa and Bittha Mor in Sitamarhi district. Sitamarhi district administration has dispatched the first consignment of 5,000 food packets by trucks to Nepal.
</text>