<url>
http://asianjournal.com/news/7-8-magnitude-quake-in-nepal-kills-5000/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
7.8 magnitude quake in Nepal kills 5,000
</headline>

<text>
RECOVERING from what may have been one of the lowest points in Philippine history—Super Typhoon Yolanda that claimed at least 6,000 lives—it is now the country’s turn to reach out to the victims of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal last Saturday, April 25, killing at least 5,057 individuals.

In a statement released on Monday, April 27, President Benigno Aquino III expressed his sympathy to the victims of the strong earthquake.

“Time and again, the world has come together to render assistance in times of dire need: Filipinos from all walks of life have likewise expressed sympathies and offered prayers for the Nepalese people,” he said.

The Philippine President insisted that through the world’s joint efforts, Nepal could rise again.

“In a time of great loss, Nepal is not alone. We are confident that, with the help of the entire world, they will be able to overcome this calamity,” Aquino said.

The Department of Foreign (DFA) affairs echoed the President’s message of unity amid this difficult time.

“During these most difficult times, the Philippines and the Filipino people stand in solidarity with our brothers and sisters in Nepal,” the foreign affairs department said.

Aquino vowed that the Philippines will deliver aid to the citizens of Nepal.

“The Philippine government will be communicating with our counterparts in Nepal, to offer assistance,” he said. “We are prepared to, and consequently taking steps to render aid to the maximum of our limitations.”

Though the DFA confirmed that there were no Filipino casualties in the earthquake, Aquino said a team from the Philippine Embassy in New Delhi, India is traveling to Nepal to meet the needs of Filipinos affected by the tragedy.

The DFA reported two Filipinos were at the base camp of Mt. Everest when an avalanche—triggered by the earthquake—buried part of the camp. The agency said the two are safe from the avalanche. However, 18 people were confirmed dead at the site.

“With the resiliency of the Nepalese spirit and the resolve of the Government of Nepal, the Philippines believe that all the challenges now faced shall, in due course, be overcome,” the DFA said.

Killer earthquake

Situated on a major fault line dividing the Indian and Eurasian plates, Nepal is considered to be vulnerable to earthquakes and is now set to endure more aftershocks in the coming months.

As of this writing, Sunday’s earthquake resulted in the deaths of at least 5,057 people and injuries to more than 10,000 individuals, not only in Nepal, but also in neighboring countries China and India. The digits are expected to significantly rise as the rescuers reach the locations, where more victims are reportedly trapped, because of the ruins of buildings destroyed by the quake.

Authorities fear the number of deaths could reach 10,000, a bit higher from Nepal’s most disastrous quake in 1934 when 8,500 people were killed.

“The death toll could go up to 10,000 because information from remote villages hit by the earthquake is yet to come in,” Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said.

The United Nations said 8 million out of Nepal’s 28 million populace were affected by the quake, and 1.4 million people are in need of food.

“In some villages, about 90 percent of the houses have collapsed. They’re just flattened,” American physician Rebecca McAteer told the Associated Press.

With broken electric lines and shattered homes and buildings, the government is struggling to extend relief efforts to all parts of the country.

“The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing,” Koirala said in an interview with Reuters. “It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal.”

Even hospitals are running short on supplies to treat injuries. Doctors and rescuers are now asking the international community to send immediate relief to the people of Nepal.

“Some of the initial surveys that we’re hearing of from the zones closer to the epicenter talk about total or near total destruction,” said Jeremy Konyndyk, director of the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance for the US Agency for International Development.

Being one of the least developed countries in the world, the Nepal government now faces a challenge to rise from an even steeper fall.

“No one from the government has come to offer us even a glass of water,” Sarga Dhaoubadel, a Nepalese whose 400-year-old ancestral home was damaged by the earthquake, told Reuters.

“Nobody has come to even check our health. We are totally on our own here. All we can hope is that the aftershocks stop and we can try and get back home,” she added.

Residents of the nation’s capital, Kathmandu, camped out creating a tent city to get away from century-old establishments collapsing.

What was once decorated by ancient temples is now a site of dust and boulders trapping numerous bodies of people who died because of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Authorities fear some tourists, together with hundreds of Nepalese citizens, may be trapped under the temples’ rubble.

The tragedy does not end here–Pascal Bernand of the Institute of Earth Physics of Paris said it is possible that the Himalayan region of the country might experience an even stronger earthquake in the coming years or centuries.

“We know there will be new major earthquakes in the Himalayan area, which could have an even bigger magnitude than this one,” Bernard noted.

The expert said the magnitude of the coming quake could reach up to 9, but in the available technology, now, it may be hard to tell if it will strike in a few years’ time or two centuries from now.

“Yes, the worst is yet to come, but it may be in a few centuries time,” he said.

Humanitarian assistance

While the impact of the earthquake remains immeasurable for the Nepalese, officials admitted that they were overwhelmed with the scale of the disaster.

“The big challenge is relief,” Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel said. “We are really desperate for more foreign expertise to pull through this crisis.”

Meanwhile, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has called on the international community, including the Philippines, to offer humanitarian assistance, especially for children.

“Children are always the most vulnerable in times of emergency. With limited access to safe water and sanitation, they are at great risk from potentially fatal infections and diseases,” UNICEF Philippines Representative Lotta Sylwander said.

“We appeal to the Filipino public to send their help—big and small—to the survivors of this tragic event so the government and the people of Nepal and humanitarian workers on the ground can properly respond to the needs especially the children and their families,” Sylwander said.

UNICEF said they are mobilizing staff and emergency supplies to meet the needed humanitarian needs of children focusing on water and sanitation, nutrition, education and child protection.

“With children accounting for 40 percent of the country’s population, we fear the disaster, including the after shocks and depleted supplies will have a severe impact on children,” she said.

Helping hand

The United Nations announced that it is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund to help victims.

Also, various countries and other organizations have pledged their aid to the victims of the disaster. The only international airport in Nepal has been experiencing traffic, causing delays in receiving international aid.

“The challenge now is getting the airport up and running,” said Kipp Branch, Senior medical supply officer for the MAP International charity. “The world is trying to respond, which is a good thing, and the systems and networks tend to work a little bit slower due to the traffic volume coming in.”

The Asian Development Bank announced a $3 million grant to Nepal and said an additional $200 million will be provided for rehabilitation projects.

USAID said it will offer an additional $9 million for the recovery efforts. Together with the financial aid is the US Air Force C-17 carrying search experts and 45 tons of cargo, which landed on Monday, April 27.

Spain also plans on sending a chartered jet to Nepal loaded with donated aid from the government and charities, including material to build water storage distribution points and latrines, tarps for shelters plus blankets and cooking sets for more than 500 families.

The British Royal Air Force and the Israeli military were also on their way to take part in the rescue and relief operations. Moreover, United Kingdom will be giving $7.6 million in aid.

Though also affected by the earthquake, India sent 1,000 National Disaster Response Force personnel to help. It has also deployed 13 aircrafts, six Mi-17 helicopters and two Advanced Light helicopters.

Indian Express reported that the country has offered 10 tons of blankets, 50 tons of water, 22 tons of food items and two tons of medicine on Sunday, a day after the major disaster to its neighbor.

China also sent a 62-member search-and-rescue team and has vowed to give $3.3 million in aid including emergency shelters, clothing, blankets and power generators.

The Australian Foreign Minister announced on Sunday that his country will be giving out $3.9 million in assistance.

Malaysia, on the other hand, will be deploying 30 members from the Special Malaysia Disaster Assitance and Rescue Team, and the Philippines is sending out 30 personnel from Red Cross to help in the operations.

The Pakistan Air Force aircraft arrived on Sunday with relief assistance, including a 30 beds and a medical team of doctors and paramedics.

(With reports from Associated Press, Reuters, Time and Agence-France Presse)

(www.asianjournal.com)

(LA Midweek April 29 – May 1, 2015 Sec. A pg.1)
</text>