<url>
http://mashable.com/2015/04/29/nepal-earthquake-grub-club/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
London pop-up restaurant to serve Nepalese food for earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
As the death toll from the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25 climbs past 5,000, relief organizations are struggling to get supplies and financial support — but people around the world are looking for ways to help.

London pop-up restaurant platform Grub Club is hosting a dinner event with Rajiv's Kitchen on May 7 to raise a goal of £5,000 ($7,700) for disaster relief in Nepal. Headed by a Nepalese chef named Rajiv KC, the restaurant will prepare traditional three-course meals for diners, while disaster-response experts speak about their experiences.

Currently costing £65 ($100) per person, all proceeds will go directly to the Dolma Development Fund and Womankind Worldwide's local partners in Nepal.

See also: How to help earthquake victims in Nepal

"We were talking about what's going on in Nepal, and were trying to figure out a way in which we could make a meaningful contribution," Siddarth Vijayakumar, cofounder of Grub Club, told Mashable. "And so the idea came about to do a Nepali Grub Club."

Vijayakumar launched Grub Club with cofounder Olivia Sibony in 2013, with the goal to "unlock hidden dining experiences" for customers. At the same time, it connects chefs with underused spaces around London, so they can run a restaurant for a night. Past locations have included an old London Underground carriage and the St. Pancras Clock Tower at King's Cross.

The Nepal fundraising event, which came together quickly over the past 48 hours, will take place at a free conference space in London's Waterloo neighborhood, accommodating approximately 100 people. Two Michelin-starred chefs will help KC in the kitchen, while community members will volunteer their time as servers, and help with other logistics.

An example of the traditional Nepalese cuisine Rajiv's Kitchen serves. Image: Facebook, Rajiv's Kitchen

"For Rajiv, it's a personal thing. He wants to get involved, to do something for his community back home," Vijayakumar said. "It's not just people coming to our event; it's having the chance to donate to charity, as well."

This isn't the first time Grub Club and its users have used the platform for social good. In August 2013, two friends hosted an Orient Express-themed event to raise money for local nonprofit Kids Company, while a September 2014 event served Syrian cuisine in support of Syrian refugees. Grub Club also works with Conflict Kitchen London to serve food from areas in conflict.

"When our events revolve around charitable giving, we don't usually focus on the charity part. It's more, 'Hey, come and have amazing food, and oh, by the way, we'll tell you about what's going on in such and such area.' I think people really love that, because they don't feel like they're being lectured to the whole time," Vijayakumar said.

Those in London can reserve a spot for the fundraising event, here.
</text>