<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-30/act-nepalese-community-rallies-to-support-earthquake-victims/6432308
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Canberran Nepalese community rallies to support victims in remote areas
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Canberran Nepalese community rallies to support victims in remote areas

Posted

Members of Canberra's Nepalese community have taken earthquake relief fundraising efforts into their own hands, prompted by news that people in remote areas are not getting the help they need.

The Australian-Nepalese Friendship Society (ANFS) has raised more than $21,000 since Saturday's magnitude-7.9 earthquake, the official death toll for which has now risen to over 5,000.

Jeevan Rana, treasurer of the ANFS in Canberra, said his organisation was focused on providing support to people in remote areas, many of whom he believes are being overlooked by major aid organisations.

"All the people who are in Kathmandu, they are getting good help," he said.

"But in the rural areas and on the mountainsides, still they are not getting proper help. We are targeting them as well."

Mr Rana said there were remote areas in Nepal that could only be reached on foot, by walking for many hours.

"I have heard some people from there, they are having no help," he said.

"There's no food. There's no tents. Really, they are in a very bad situation."

He said the ANFS had a committee of about 15 to 16 people, who were using contacts on the ground to find where aid was most needed.

"We are trying to use our sources and the people who are from there, we are asking them," he said.

They can send whatever they like. A tent if they want to send tents, medicine, food, some clothes, blankets. They can help us. ANFS treasurer Jeevan Rana

"They are telling us what kind of situation they are having so we will be able to help them. We are working on it."

Mr Rana said many countries were sending aid to Nepal, but from reports on the ground, it was not being distributed properly.

He said the ANFS was keen to make sure their fundraising efforts were reaching those most in need.

"Whatever we collect, we want the money to go to the right place, and at least they will get something, whatever we can send them. That's what we've planned now," he said.

Providing shelter the main priority: ANFS

Mr Rana said there were between 700 and 800 Nepalese families in Canberra, many of whom had donated to ANFS.

"We are still getting money from our members and friends... we have collected about $21,600 until this afternoon, and we have sent about $5,000 already to Nepal. The rest we are going to send as soon as possible," he said.

"We are now concentrating to give them tents, medicines, food... we're trying to help provide those things over there."

The $5,000 sent so far was donated to the Non-Resident Nepali Association in Kathmandu, an organisation that has been accepting earthquake relief donations from Nepalese people from around the globe.

Like many Canberrans from Nepal, Mr Rana's family was affected by the earthquake.

His mother's home was cracked in the quake, and his wife's cousin lost his home and has been struggling to find food, in the Parbat district in western Nepal.

"My wife's cousin, his house was totally damaged ... once my wife contacted him, he started crying," he said.

"He had nothing to even eat ... that's the situation over there really. It's very painful."

Mr Rana said if Canberrans wanted to help the ANFS provide relief in Nepal, there were many ways they could do it.

"We are not asking only for money. They can send whatever they like. A tent, if they want to send tents, medicine, food, some clothes, blankets, they can help us," he said.

"At the minute the main focus is to give them shelter, because the weather is also very bad."

Mr Rana said Canberrans could find out more about supporting the disaster relief work of the ANFS by visiting the groups Facebook page or by emailing info@anfscanberra.org.au.

Topics: disasters-and-accidents, earthquake, act, canberra-2600, australia, nepal
</text>