<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/hm-king-extends-lifeline-quake-stricken-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
HM King extends lifeline to quake-stricken Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Manama, Apr.28 (BNA): His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa has today ordered the establishment of the Bahrain Committee for supporting the Nepalese People. HM the King's Representative for Charity Works and Youth Affairs, Royal Charity Organisation (RCO) Board of Trustees' Chairman His Highness Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad Al-Khalifa will head the panel.

The committee has been tasked to dispatch humanitarian relief-aid and extend assistance to the friendly Nepalese people so as to alleviate their suffering and trauma following the violent earthquake which rocked their country.

Following the royal directives, HH Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad Al-Khalifa issued an edict appointing RCO Secretary-General Dr. Mustapha Al-Sayyed to chair the committee. RCO Assistant Secretary-General for Planning and Charity Resources Youssef Al-Yacoub has been named as vice-chairman of the panel which includes officials representing Manama-based Nepalese Ambassador, the Bahrain Red Crescent Society (BRCS), the Ministry of Health, RCO and other associations in Bahrain.

The committee will dispatch the first forty-ton consignment to the Nepalese Capital, Kathmandu, within the coming days, containing medicine, food items, tents and water purifiers. "The biggest challenge resides in rescuing the Nepalese people and alleviating the suffering of traumatized and bereaved families", Dr. Al-Sayyed said, stressing the importance of the lifeline in the aftermath of the devastating quake, the worst in more than 80 years, leaving thousands of people dead, injured and homeless.

Dr. Al-Sayyed met Nepalese Ambassador to Bahrain and announced that the necessary needs have been provided in cooperation and coordination with the international organisations, the Ministry of Health, the Bahrain Red Crescent Society, pointing out that an RCO team would examine the items to assess their quality and ensure their safe arrival in Kathmandu.

RCO and the Ministry of health are coordinating to dispatch a 25-strong medical team including doctors and nurses specialised in humanitarian relief-aid, so as help search and rescue teams in Nepal. Dr. Sayyed announced that a vigil would be held tomorrow (April29) at 08:00 pm at the Bahrain Karaleeya Samajam (BKS) in Segaya, Manama.

Health Minister Sadiq bin Abdelkarim Al-Shehabi paid tribute to HM the King for the royal directives, hailing the efforts of HH Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad to set up the Bahrain Committee for supporting the Nepalese People.

"The ministry is now coordinating with RCO and BRCS officials to provide the necessary medication and medical items, supplied by international organisations, Bahrain Red Crescent and The International Red Cross and Red Crescent", he said, pointing out that a medical team would deliver the relief-aid consignment the Nepalese authorities.

Nepalese Ambassador to Bahrain Mani Prasad Bhattarai hailed the royal directives and the initiative of HH Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad to establish the Bahrain Committee for Supporting the Nepalese People. Lulu Hypermarket announced that it would allocate points in its branches across Bahrain for people to donate food products in support of the quake-hit Nepalese people. Two account numbers have been opened with Bank of India (H10SBIN02701587120001) and the Bahrain and Kuwait Bank –BBK- (100000358458) to collect money donations. Proceeds will be dispatched to Nepal via the Royal Charity Organisation.
</text>