<url>
http://www.insidehalton.com/news-story/5591245-oakville-residents-in-nepal-doing-what-they-can-to-help/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Oakville residents in Nepal — doing what they can to help
</headline>

<text>
Vijay is also instrumental in the group’s water, sanitation and hygiene program, helping to set up water purification units that can produce 40 litres of clean drinking water every minute.

“We’ll be flying sorties and communicating our findings to the GlobalMedic team in Toronto and local aid agencies and relief organizations,” said Vijay in an email to the Oakville Beaver Tuesday night.

“This will enable communities to receive clean drinkable water — one of the greatest needs in the immediate aftermath of a sudden-onset disaster such as this. We have multiple water purification units inbound to set up and 2000 families will get household water purification units.”

Singh described the organization as professional first responders – paramedics, fire fighters and police officers – who volunteer their time to help out in crisis zones around the globe

“We’re global 9-1-1,” he said.

Vijay is scheduled to stay in Nepal for three weeks.

Jennifer O’Brian, originally from Oakville, experienced the power of the earthquake firsthand. She is a volunteer at an orphanage in the Kathmandu valley and she was on a small bus with 11 children and three other volunteers when the earthquake hit.

"At first I thought we had been in an accident as the bus was vigorously shaking. Traffic came to a halt and motorcyclists were crashing to the ground and being spewed across the road," O'Brien stated in an email from Kathmandu.

She said she is now sheltered at the Australian embassy in the capital.

“Infrastructure is extremely poor here, thus it isn't safe to be near any of the buildings especially given that tremors of various severities have continued to occur over the past 48 hours," she said.

Oakville resident Cathy Grogan said she has barely slept since she heard about the destruction in Nepal. She said she first travelled there 19 years ago and fell in love. Now, she visits every year for months at a time.

“I can speak Nepali. I’m part of Nepal. Nepal is part of me,” said the White Oaks Secondary School graduate and long-time local resident. “It’s my heart. It’s the love of my life.”

Grogan, who said she was just in Kathmandu two weeks ago, was heartbroken by the images coming out of the disaster area and has been motivated to do something for the Nepali people.

She is raising funds and collecting what supplies she can to take to Nepal. She is gathering shovels, flashlights, batteries, tents, duct tape and water purifiers. Grogan said she hopes to fly to Nepal in the coming weeks to personally deliver assistance and wants to keep her aid efforts personal.

Canada has pledged $5 million to the relief efforts and has dispatched the Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART), meant to deal with humanitarian disasters.

The Canadian government announced Monday it will match donations to the Nepal Earthquake Relief fund dollar-for-dollar until May 25.

To donate to World Vision Canada’s Nepal mission, visit www.worldvision.ca, or to donate to the Canadian Red Cross Nepal response, visit www.redcross.ca.

– with files from the Toronto Star
</text>