<url>
http://english.cntv.cn/2015/04/28/ARTI1430219297377486.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
China stands side by side with Nepal in time of woe
</headline>

<text>
Editor: Zhang Dan 丨CCTV.com

04-28-2015 19:24 BJT

By Xinhua reporters Zhou Shengping, Hao Weiwei, Zhao Zhuoyun and Xin Jianqiang



A massive earthquake shook Nepal at 2:11 pm Beijing time on April 25, causing heavy casualties and severely damaging the Himalayan country. According to Nepal’s Home Ministry on April 28, more than 5, 000 people had been killed and a total of 10,915 others injured in the powerful earthquake.



Nepal is China’s close neighbor. The grief of Nepal tugs at the heartstrings of many in China. Soon after the quake, Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a message of condolences to Nepal’s President Ram Baran Yadav which read “Chinese people stand firmly beside the Nepalese people, and China is willing to provide all necessary support to Nepal.”



Under the guidance of its neighborhood diplomacy of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness, China raced to provide all necessary assistance to Nepal.

Members of China International Search and Rescue Team (CISAR) take a rest at the rescue site in Nepal's capital Katmandu on April 27, 2015. CISAR members successfully found the second earthquake survivor after 34-hour rescue work in Katmandu on Monday. (Xinhua/Bai Yang)

On the morning of April 26, a 62-strong China International Search and Rescue Team arrived in Nepal’s capital Kathmandu to become the first international heavy urban search and rescue team in the quake-stricken country. The team consists of 40 rescuers, 10 medical staff, 12 seismological experts and six sniffer dogs. This is the 10th time for the team to carry out humanitarian missions overseas.

Shankar Koirala, Nepal’s joint secretary of the office of the prime minister and the council of ministers, warmly welcomed the Chinese team at the airport, describing their arrival as timely assistance.



Along with the rescue team, part of the emergency relief supplies provided by the Chinese government also arrived in Nepal at the same time. China has decided to provide Nepal 20 million yuan ($3.4 million) in emergency aid including tents, blankets and generators.



Moreover, the first medical team dispatched by the Chinese government also arrived in Kathmandu on April 27 to carry out a humanitarian mission in quake-stricken Nepal. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army Air Force has also sent IL-76 planes to Nepal to conduct rescue operations, provide medical aid and offer counseling.

Officers and soldiers prepare to board an IL-76 aircraft at an airport before departing for earthquake-stricken Nepal in Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, April 27, 2015.

This is the biggest earthquake to strike Nepal in nearly a century. China, a country that has been through earthquakes in Wenchuan, Yushu, Lushan and Ludian in the last decade, has a clear understanding of the pain and grief to which Nepal is subject.



And the Nepal earthquake also affected China’s Tibet Autonomous Region, killing 25 and injuring 117. That number is feared to climb as time goes by. China on the one hand carries out rescue and relief work in quake zones in its own country, but also spares no efforts in offering a helping hand to its neighbor Nepal.



As a Chinese saying goes, “A country should not only seek its own benefit but also show loyalty to its partners.” China’s emergency aid to Nepal echoes the principles of neighborhood diplomacy and once again proves that China is a responsible country.

China’s aid to Nepal also shows to the world that China’s endeavor to build a community of common destiny in neighboring areas is not empty talk. China is forging a deep friendship with its neighbors by sharing weal and woe.



A friend in need is a friend indeed. Disasters always catch people off guard, but they are also the touchstone of friendship. Confronted with major disasters, the Nepalese people are more likely to feel the sincerity of Chinese people across the Himalayas.
</text>