<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3060361/Nepal-earthquake-survivor-pulled-rubble-82-hours-trapped-collapsed-hotel.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake survivor is pulled from rubble after 82 hours trapped
</headline>

<text>
This is the incredible moment that a four-month-old earthquake survivor was pulled alive from the rubble of his collapsed home following the 7.8-magnitude tremor which shattered Nepal.

The baby boy, who emerged from the wreckage covered in dust, was miraculously found amid the devastation after rescue workers heard the infant's faint cries.

The military search team had already scoured the area near to the child's home in Bhaktapur, Kathmandu, in the hope of finding the little boy. But they had moved on after believing the child had not survived.

Scroll down for video

Rescued: This is the incredible moment that a four-month-old earthquake survivor was pulled alive from the rubble of his collapsed home following the 7.8-magnitude tremor which shattered Nepal

Saved: The baby boy, who emerged from the wreckage covered in dust, was miraculously found amid the devastation by rescue workers who heard the infant's faint cries

Second chance: The military search team had already scoured the area near to the child's home in Bhaktapur, Kathmandu, in the hope of finding the little boy. But they had moved on after believing he had not survived

They only returned to the spot for the second time when the young boy's cries for help were heard from beneath the debris.

An operation was then launched to pluck the baby to safety, 22 hours after the quake first hit.

The boy was named locally as Sonit Awal and reported to be in stable condition, according to Kathmandu Today. The condition and whereabouts of his parents are unknown.

The pictures emerged today as the first British fatality from the earthquake was confirmed.

The British Foreign Office said the victim was a non-UK resident who had lived in Hong Kong, but did not release any further details.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond later said officials were 'urgently investigating' reports of a further British national reported killed at the Everest base camp.

He said they do not have any confirmation yet.

It also emerged today that another survivor who was trapped under rubble next to dead bodies for 82 hours stayed alive by drinking his own urine.

Team work: The military team then found the young boy when they returned to the area for the second time

Unharmed: An operation was then launched to pluck the baby to safety. The boy was named locally as Sonit Awal and reported to be in stable condition

The gap showing the hole where the baby was buried alive for nearly one whole day after his home collapsed

Rishi Khanal, 27, had just finished lunch at a hotel in Kathmandu and had gone up to the second floor when the 7.8-magnitude quake caused the building to crumble around him.

He was struck by falling masonry and became trapped with his foot crushed under rubble.

Speaking from his hospital bed today, surrounded by his family, he said: 'I had some hope but by yesterday I'd given up.

'My nails went all white and my lips cracked... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die.'

'I was certain I was going to die': Rishi Khanal is carried out of a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu on a stretcher after being trapped under rubble for 82 hours following the earthquake that struck Nepal four days ago

Saved: Mr Khanal was struck by falling masonry and became trapped with his foot crushed under rubble

Relief: Mr Khanal said he was surrounded by dead bodies. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours

'It feels good. I am thankful': Mr Khanal had just finished lunch at the hotel in Kathmandu and had gone up to the second floor when the 7.8-magnitude quake caused the building to crumble around him

Giving further details of his ordeal, Mr Khamal said he was surrounded by dead bodies and a terrible smell.

But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.

By the time he was pulled out, he had been trapped — in what could have become his tomb — for 82 hours.

'There was no sound going out or coming in. I kept banging against the rubble and finally someone responded and came to help.

'I hadn't eaten or had anything to drink so I drank my own urine.'

Fury: Nepalis scuffle with police in protest over the lack of aid being provided to victims by the government

Nepalese police stop protesters who blocked traffic to protest the slow pace of aid delivery for the victims

Up in arms: Earthquake victims chant anti-government slogans in Kathmandu. Anger and frustration were mounting steadily, with many Nepalis sleeping out under makeshift tents for a fourth night since the disaster

Desperate: An earthquake victim pleads for help from a member of the Nepalese Armed Police Force while protesting against the government's lack of aid provided to the victims in Kathmandu

MOTHER DIGS OUT THE BODIES OF HER DAUGHTER AND SON... BUT FINDS YOUNGEST BOY, 4, ALIVE A mother dug for hours through the rubble of her collapsed home to recover the bodies of two of her children, but miraculously found her young son had survived. Sunthalia's home was destroyed in Jharibar, a village in the hilly Gorkha district of Nepal close to the quake's epicentre. With her husband away in India and with no help in sight, she was forced to retrieve the bodies of her 10-year-old daughter and eight-year-old son herself. But she spotted her other son, aged four, still moving. 'I could see my son's fingers fluttering through the pile of stones. 'That's how I could see him and save him,' Sunthalia said, sitting listlessly on the ground, her son by her side, with the stench of dead cattle still in the ruins of her house.

It was not clear if he was a hotel employee or a guest.

'It feels good. I am thankful,' he said.

He was taken away for surgery before more details could be obtained.

In another remarkable tale of survival, a four-month-old baby was rescued from a collapsed building more than 22 hours after the quake struck.

The boy was pulled out of rubble in the town of Bhaktapur by Nepali soldiers who did not notice him at first, but returned after hearing him cry.

He was reportedly in a stable condition, according to CNN which cited a report by Kathmandu Today.

Their stories come as the death toll from the earthquake four days ago rose past 5,000 today as officials conceded they had made mistakes in their initial response by leaving survivors stranded in remote villages waiting for aid and relief.

The government has yet to fully assess the devastation wrought by Saturday's quake, unable to reach many mountainous areas despite aid supplies and personnel pouring in from around the world.

Anger and frustration were mounting steadily, with many Nepalis sleeping out in the open under makeshift tents for a fourth night since the country's worst quake in more than 80 years.

'This is a disaster on an unprecedented scale.

'There have been some weaknesses in managing the relief operation,' Nepal's Communication Minister Minendra Rijal said late on Tuesday.

'We will improve this from Wednesday.'

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has told Reuters the death toll could reach 10,000, with information on casualties and damage from far-flung villages and towns yet to come in.

Exodus: Thousands of people are lining up at bus stations in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages

Nepalese people load into buses in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people anyone hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages

Devastated: Nepalese women search for belongings among the rubble at the heritage town of Bhaktapur

An aerial view of showing damaged villages of Sindhupalchwok district, 75 kilometers from Kathmandu

Sindhupalchwok is one of the major district where more than 1,260 people were killed and 416 injured

That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake, the last disaster on this scale to hit the Himalayan nation of 28 million people that sits between India and China.

Rescue helicopters have been unable to land in remote mountainous areas.

Shambhu Khatri, a technician on board one of the helicopters, said entire hillsides had collapsed in parts of the worst-hit Gorkha district, burying settlements, and access was impossible.

'The big challenge is to find a place to land,' he said.

A health official in Laprak, a village in the district best known as the home of Gurkha soldiers, estimated that 1,600 of the 1,700 houses in the village had been razed.

Traumatised: Injured earthquake victims on stretchers wait to leave the army base in Kathmandu after being brought for treatment from Sindhupalcwok district in Nepal

Children are airlifted from Sindhupalchwok district to Kathmandu Hospital in a Nepalese Army helicopter

A girl receives treatment after being brought to the Chautara army base in Sindhupalchwok district

A baby girl is held by her mother as she receives treatment at Chautara army base in Sindhupalchwok

Nine-year-old Sanmaya Tamang receives treatment inside the National Trauma Centre in Kathmandu

An official from Nepal's home ministry said the number of confirmed deaths had risen to 5,006. Almost 10,000 were injured in Nepal, and more than 80 were also killed in India and Tibet.

Meanwhile, British personnel have arrived in Nepal to help with the overall rescue operation as medical services are at 'breaking point' after thousands were killed.

A team of more than 60 UK international search and rescue responders and specialist rescue dogs have arrived, with some already operating on the ground and travelling out of the capital to more remote areas, the Department for International Development (DfID) said.

The personnel are drawn from 15 fire and rescue services from across the UK, and their capabilities include locating deeply-buried victims, constructing timber supports to safely shore up buildings and providing advanced life support.

A member of the Nepalese armed forces helps a mother and child evacuate a quake-affected area of Nepal

A father holds his injured son after being brought to the Chautara army base in Sindhupalchwok district, where more than 1,260 were killed and 416 injured in the earthquake

Residents rest under a makeshift tent after their homes were destroyed in Harisddhi just outside Kathmandu

A child injured is carried out of a helicopter in Kathmandu after being evacuated by the Nepalese army

A Nepali carries an injured victim of recent earthquake before being evacuated by Indian Air Force helicopter

A female villager named Ramaya prays for food after an aid relief helicopter lands at the remote mountain village of Gumda, near the epicenter of Saturday's massive earthquake in the Gorkha District of Nepal

They were joined by an eight-strong group of expert trauma medics, and more UK medical crews are expected to arrive in the country in the coming days.

In the capital Kathmandu and other cities, hospitals quickly overflowed with injured soon after the quake, with many being treated out in the open or not at all.

Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi appealed for specialist doctors from overseas, as well as for search-and-rescue teams despite earlier suggestions from officials that Nepal did not need such assistance.

'Our top priority is for relief and rescue teams. We need neurologists, orthopaedic surgeons and trauma surgeons,' Bairagi said.

On Tuesday, the head of the United Nations Development Programme in Nepal told Reuters that Kathmandu had told aid agencies it did not need more foreign rescue teams because its government and military could cope.

Experts from a Polish NGO that has an 87-strong team in Nepal have said the chances of finding people alive in the ruins five days after the quake were 'next to zero'.

International aid has begun arriving in Nepal, but disbursement has been slow, partly because aftershocks have sporadically closed the airport.

Some vendors had started selling fruit on Kathmandu's streets but others said they were too scared to open their shops because buildings had been so badly damaged.

Reduced to rubble: Nepalese soldiers stand next to wrecked buildings at Durbar square, a UNESCO world heritage site that was badly damaged by the earthquake, in the historical centre of Kathmandu

Rescuers from Japan are seen in the historical centre of Kathmandu as they help out with the relief effort

Worry: A Nepalese woman carries a baby while waiting with others for buses to take them back to their home towns in Kathmandu after the govenment announced that they would provide the service free of charge

Vital supplies: A woman carries a bucket of water supplied by Nepal Water Corporation in Kathmandu

'I want to start selling, I have children at home, but how can I open a shop where it is risky for me to sit inside?' said Arjun Rai, a 54-year-old who runs a general store.

Aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have complicated rescue efforts. Food, water and power are in short supply.

Tensions between foreigners and Nepalis desperate for relief were starting to rise, rescuers said, as fresh avalanches were reported in several areas.

Members of an Israeli search-and-rescue group named Magnus said hundreds of tourists, including about 100 Israelis, were stranded in Langtang in Rasuwa district, a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu hit by a fresh avalanche on Tuesday.

Fights had broken out there because of food shortages, Magnus team member Amit Rubin said.

'Villagers think the tourists are taking too much food,' Rubin said.

An attendant pours water into the mouth of an injured evacuee as he lies on a stretcher inside a military plane evacuating injured and stranded Indians from Kathmandu to New Delhi during a midnight rescue mission

Survivors hold on to a cable as a military plane takes off with evacuees from Kathmandu to New Delhi

Fleeing to safety: Indian air force personnel help survivors of Saturday's earthquake to board a military plane, evacuating injured and stranded Indians from Kathmandu to New Delhi

Nepal Army personnel load relief materials to be dropped at Larpak village in Kathmandu

Pallets of Australian Aid (blankets, tarpaulins, hygiene kits and water purification tablets) are loaded onto a No. 36 Squadron C-17A Globemaster aircraft in preparation for delivery to Nepal in Amberley, Australia

In other remote areas where rescue helicopters were unable to land, soldiers had started to make their way overland, first by bus, then by foot.

In Sindhupalchowk, about three hours by road northeast of Kathmandu, the earthquake was followed by landslides, killing 1,206 people and seriously injuring close to 400.

The quake also triggered an avalanche on Mount Everest that killed at least 18 climbers and guides, including four foreigners, the worst disaster on the world's highest peak.
</text>