<url>
http://www.ynetnews.com/articles/0,7340,L-4651968,00.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
IDF opens hospital in earthquake-ravaged Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The IDF's hospital in Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, officially opened on Wednesday morning for treatment of people injured in the earthquake on Saturday that claimed at least 5,000 lives.

Follow Ynetnews on Facebook and Twitter



IDF soldiers accompanied by Nepalese military representatives sang Israel's national anthem and saluted the flag. Col. Dr. Tarif Bader and Col. Yoram Lardo, the head of the rescue mission, announced the opening of the hospital.

IDF soldiers welcomed by Nepalese rescuers (Photo: Itay Blumenthal)

"The geographic distance, difficulties in travel and language barriers did not in the past, or this time, delay the decision that became a reality – to send an Israeli mission to rescue and provide life-saving medical treatment for those staying on Nepalese soil, regardless of their origin or affiliation," said Bader.

"I'm proud of you, trust and count on you to do the best you can," he told the rescue team. "I'm no stranger to being far from home and missing my family. I'm sure you feel this way too, but our mission here is stronger than any emotion, and all the Israeli people feel this way. He who saves a single life, saves the world entire."

IDF troops wait for the injured (Photo: Itay Blumenthal)

Among those assisting at the hospital were two Israelis who had been rescued themselves. Omer Kirshner of Jerusalem and Yael Lubin of Shoham were rescued Tuesday afternoon after spending four days in Pokhara. Upon arriving in Kathmandu, the two decided to volunteer at the IDF hospital.

Kirshner served in the search-and-rescue unit of the IDF's Home Front Command and decided to join the rescue effort, while Lubin has been slated to assist in the orthopedic department. "The earthquake struck everything in Nepal," said Kirshner. "I served in the rescue unit and I'm here. So why not help?"

IDF soldiers and Nepalese troops at the makeshift hospital (Photo: Itay Blumenthal)

Lubin said that once they realized the extent of the disaster, they were confident in their desire to help others whose lives were destroyed. "When we understood what had happened and when we saw pictures and information from Israel, it was clear that we couldn't continue as usual," she said.

Besides treating the injured, the hospital will also create a special unit to treat Indian surrogate mothers. The hospital is supposed to operate for two weeks, but the possibility of extending that period is under consideration.

Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala and the country's chief of staff were expected to visit the IDF hospital on Wednesday evening.

Meanwhile, attempts to rescue Israelis have continued. Three Israeli travelers remained out of contact as of Wednesday afternoon.

An state-funded El Al flight carrying 229 Israelis landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon.
</text>