<url>
http://juneauempire.com/local/2015-04-29/juneau-woman-seeks-mother-nepal-post-quake
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Juneau woman seeks mother in Nepal post quake
</headline>

<text>
• Yasmine Habash seeks information on mother Dawn following magnitude-7.8 earthquake • Confirmed death toll in Nepal more than 4,600

Dawn Habash, left, with her daughter, Yasmine Habash, is unaccounted for in Nepal after Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake. Dawn's family is looking for any information they can find on her whereabouts.

When natural disasters or other tragedies strike distant lands, they may not seem to have much bearing on life in Juneau, but at least one Juneau resident’s life has been upturned as she awaits word on the fate of her mother.

On Saturday, a magnitude-7.8 quake struck Nepal. The Associated Press reported a confirmed death toll on Tuesday afternoon in Nepal of 4,680 and more than 8,000 injured. Another 61 were killed in India and 25 in Tibet. Tens of thousands are believed to be homeless.

Yasmine Habash, who has made Juneau home for the past several years, last heard from her mother, Dawn Habash, on April 17, when Dawn arrived at the starting point of the Tamang Heritage Trek in the Langtang National Park area of Nepal.

Yasmine and other family members expected a trek of eight to 10 days. They expected to hear from Dawn but haven’t.

“We’re hearing a little bit, but that region is still so remote and seems so cut off,” Yasmine said by phone from the East Coast, where she’s with family. “We’ve been hearing of things, but no official reports.”

What is known so far is a mix of hopeful and tragic, with reports of groups taking care of each other, cut off from roads and villages by landslides, but also valleys and villages devastated by avalanches, deaths and injuries.

Rescue workers and medical teams from at least a dozen countries were helping police and army troops in Kathmandu and surrounding areas, said Maj. Gen. Binod Basnyat, a Nepal army spokesman.

“We’ve been hearing that helicopter evacuations have begun, that there are over 100 people in the Langtang area, groups of people together taking care of each other but stuck because of landslides,” Yasmine said. “But no confirmation that she’s part of the group or even in that region.”

In addition to broad rescue efforts by nations, there are small, personal efforts to find and help individuals like Dawn Habash.

Yasmine and other members of her family have sought to share photos and a plea for help to find Dawn through social media. Yasmine had an interview with CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Monday, sharing photos and identifying information.

“It’s scary not to have contact,” Cooper acknowledged, interviewing Yasmine remotely.

He said communications are down in the area, particularly in more remote regions.

“We’re really hoping that is the key issue,” Yasmine responded. “In case that’s not the issue, we’re hoping having her face out there will help people see her and recognize her in case she does need help.”

Dawn is a 57-year-old yoga instructor who is thought to have been hiking on her own. Yasmine described her mother as an avid hiker and said she is familiar with Nepal but was in a new region.

The best way to contact the family with information about Dawn Habash is by accessing the Facebook page her family created: “Find Dawn Habash in Nepal After Earthquake 2015.” It has turned into an online communications center where news links and information have been collected.

Yasmine is with her brother, sister-in-law and nephew on the east coast; she coincidentally had a trip planned and left Juneau on Thursday. She was in Idaho when she heard of the earthquake.

“Obviously we’re hoping she’s … part of the group helping each other out and will be evacuated soon,” Yasmine said. “But there’s no way of knowing anything. Today I’m feeling optimistic, but ask me tomorrow and you might get a different answer.”

Yasmine said she’s been touched by the response from Juneau upon hearing her mother is missing, but she encourages people to do more than send positive thoughts.

“This tragedy is going to take years for Nepal to recover,” she said. “I’m worried about my mom, but I’m also worried about the people who don’t get to leave, who live there — that’s their home and life.”

For a list of ways to help recovery in Nepal and affected regions, CNN has a list: www.cnn.com/2015/04/25/world/nepal-earthquake-how-to-help/.
</text>