<url>
http://bnn-news.com/latvian-tourists-plan-return-nepal-originally-intended-128444
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Most Latvian tourists plan to return from Nepal as they originally intended
</headline>

<text>
Latvian Foreign Ministry continues maintaining contact with all Latvian citizens who are currently in Nepal. Communication is sustained either directly through the embassy or with help from relatives.

None of the Latvian citizens that are present in Nepal have been injured in the recent earthquake. In addition, multiple Latvian citizens have already either returned to Latvia or are on their way now. Most remain in Nepal and plan to return to Latvia once their stay has ended, as reported by Foreign Ministry.

The ministry also denies claims recently voiced by the media regarding the ministry’s alleged refusal to provide assistance to Latvian citizens that are currently staying at Namche Bazaar. Communication is maintained constantly; solutions are being sought to carry the group of tourists back. These tourists are not in any danger – they are safe and have access to food and fresh water, the ministry said.

The international community and authorities in Nepal are doing all they can to provide assistance to those injured in the devastating earthquake. The government of Nepal does not plan to evacuate people from the aforementioned district.

At the same time, following an initiative of the Latvian embassy, a meeting of European Union member states’ consular officials was held in Deli this Wednesday, 29 April. This meeting was used to coordinate allocation of support to EU citizens in Nepal. Latvian and Polish embassies plan to ask Nepal to provide air transports to carry EU citizens from Namche Bazaar to the nearest airport. This could require several days, as attention is currently focused on providing assistance to people injured in the earthquake.

Latvian Foreign Ministry asks residents to be understanding of this situation. If Latvian citizens in Namche Bazaar wish to travel from there faster, they will have to cover travel costs on their own.

According to information from Latvian embassy in India, Namche Bazaar is located no more than a two-day walk away from Lukla Airport. It is entirely possible that people will have to wait several days at the airport, as this particular airport is considered one of the most dangerous airports in the world because of rapidly changing weather conditions.

BNN had previously reported that a devastating earthquake had struck Nepal at the end of last week. Estimates suggest eight million people have been affected and 1.4 million have difficulties finding food and water, as confirmed by the United Nations Organization.

Ref: 102.109.109.4874
</text>