<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/sunday-star-times/latest-edition/latest-news/68116841/Nelson-pair-recount-Nepal-earthquake-ordeal
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nelson pair recount Nepal earthquake ordeal
</headline>

<text>
Nelson pair recount Nepal earthquake ordeal

supplied Joe Tiller (left) and Roger Marwick at Nelson Airport last Wednesday about to embark on their "bucket list trip" to Nepal.

Joe Tiller and Roger Marwick left Nelson Airport last week ready to embark on an adventure of a lifetime, but while the pair were eating lunch at a lodge in Nepal on Saturday, things took an extreme turn.

The pair recounted the experience and aftermath to their wives in Nelson through a number of text messages. The women have pieced together a series of events gathered from the messages of their husbands.

At the time the earthquake struck, the pair, who were on a "bucket list trip" trekking, were in Phakding at a timber lodge. They were just north of Lukla where they had been 24 hours before.

* Please, DONATE to the Stuff.co.nz Nepalese recovery fund.

"Everyone ran outside and the surrounding stone lodges began to disintegrate before our eyes," recounted Marwick in his text messages.

"We are at Phakding lots of people running and screaming thankfully nobody was struck by falling debris."

The pair stayed in the lodge's vicinity. The owner, who Marwick described as "fantastic", took them and others to a flat spot. There, 12 people slept under a tarpaulin while it rained. The lodge owner cooked food and brought it to them.

Marwick described the first night as being very emotional with "massive" aftershocks and landslides. He said it was cold and foggy in the morning.

"Soon bodies were coming down the trail, we couldn't believe trekkers wanted to continue up and were doing so," he said.

With almost all locals around them experiencing extensive damage to their homes they still took the time to smile a greeting at the men. Marwick said the pair felt ashamed to be intruding on them as they walked back to Lukla, in south-eastern Nepal.

Arriving back at Lukla, rated as having the most dangerous airport in the world, Marwick said many trekkers were milling about desperate to leave. He estimated about 500 to 1000 people trying to get out of the area.

Refusing to sleep in a building, the pair hired tents and have pitched them in a paddock. Tiller said many Lukla Nepalese residents are also sleeping in tents around them. He commented that there was "great" food and plentiful water supplied.

The airport in Lukla was full of action with helicopters carrying the dead and seriously injured throughout the day.

Both said the weather was deteriorating there, with cloud and thunderstorms on the way which would have an effect on rescue efforts.

"It feels like a war zone very reminiscent of Christchurch," said Tiller.

The men were contacted by the New Zealand embassy in Delhi but were told to stay where they were. Their insurance company was providing little assistance to the men.

"They said they could only help us if it was a medical emergency. I said to them do we have to wait until we are struck by a landslide of debris from falling, crumbling building first and then call them!" said Tiller.

The pair are not intending to travel to Kathmandu yet after hearing reports of civil unrest, as well as water shortages and no accommodation.

A text from Tiller read: "We are going to wait here until things calm down could be a fair while too scary in Kathmandu yet for me."

Tiller's wife, Annie Tiller, said she believed the men were doing the right thing by staying where they were.

"This was affirmed when we contacted Adventure Consultants of Wanaka who have two teams up there right now and they advise to stay put for at least a week," said Annie.

She said for the men to go to Kathmandu at this stage would take a "significant leap of faith".

Both men have considered leaving Nepal by travelling overland to India.

"However it is probably not an option by foot and would probably require a helicopter and this is expensive," she said.

Despite their circumstances both men were positive in their messages back home.

"And [high spirits] will remain so if the situation remains status quo," said Tiller.

"The poverty is heartbreaking yet we still sit on a terrace away from buildings, sipping ginger tea talking to loved ones in beautiful Nelson," said Marwick.

- Stuff
</text>