<url>
http://www.therecord.com/opinion-story/5591417-devastated-nepal-needs-your-help/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Devastated Nepal needs your help
</headline>

<text>
It's a long way from Waterloo Region to earthquake ravaged Nepal — if you count the distance in kilometres.

But if you look at how much people in this part of Canada care about the injured, homeless and helpless people in that impoverished Asian nation, and if you see how much help is already flowing from here to there, you'll realize we're very close.

It was just four days ago that a massive quake convulsed this mountainous country and left much of it in ruins. Some communities have been destroyed and where tidy stone houses recently stood only piles of rubble remain. More than 5,000 people are confirmed dead but the actual number could exceed 10,000. At least 6,500 people are seriously injured and 500,000 are homeless.

Although this tragedy unfolded halfway around the world, people in Waterloo Region were quick to respond. The earthquake registered in human hearts — not just on the Richter scale. The Mennonite Central Committee began accepting relief funds. Waterloo's Aeryon Labs loaned three aerial drones to fly above the stricken cities and villages, mapping the terrain while helping emergency crews find survivors.

Waterloo Oxford District Secondary School students in Baden began collecting relief money, which they'll send to Nepal through the Waterloo-based international development agency World Accord. Then there's University of Waterloo student Lindsay Kalbfleisch who with 14 peers travelled to Mount Everest's Base Camp in Nepal last year on a school geography excursion.

Because of this experience, the students were moved to act and Kalbfleisch started raising money online for donation to the Canadian Red Cross. Meanwhile, drivers navigating the Conestoga Parkway can see the distinctive red and blue Nepalese flag that has been raised as a sign of solidarity with the people of Nepal by a homeowner in Kitchener's Bridgeport.

All these compassionate people and all these caring agencies deserve praise. They also deserve support from all of us. They are doing something truly good. They are shining evidence that in a world increasingly interconnected by electronic and digital communications, people are also increasingly connected across national, cultural and religious boundaries.

As a country, Nepal seldom tops the minds of Canadians. The economic ties between the two nations are slender. Few Nepalese migrate to Canada. But this is the 21st century. The citizens of affluent countries like Canada travel to exotic places like Nepal, which has eight of the world's 10 highest mountains and some of the planet's most spectacular landscapes.

Those travellers form bonds with the people they meet and return with personal knowledge of a country so seemingly different from Canada. They know Nepal is beautiful. They know it is one of the poorest and least developed countries on Earth, with nearly a quarter of the population living below the poverty line. So they know it is ill-equipped to respond to the natural disaster that has struck them.

Meanwhile, because of the images of the devastation caused by the earthquake that began streaming out of Nepal almost immediately on the internet and then appeared on newspaper front-pages and television broadcasts, people everywhere quickly learned of the disaster. It's one thing to hear about a person whose home disintegrated when the ground shook. It's another thing to see a human whose face is distorted with pain and shock standing beside those ruins.
</text>