<url>
http://www.edenmagnet.com.au/story/3045441/plea-from-the-heart-for-nepal/?cs=658
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Plea from the heart for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Jenny Stewart, of Pebbles for Nepal, during the delivery and installation of a water tank at a village in the Chepang Hill region.

Jenny Stewart, of Pambula, is a passionate advocate for the people of the Chepang Hill region of Nepal and she is desperately worried about their welfare following the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that devastated Nepal on Saturday, April 25.



Ms Stewart set up Pebbles for Nepal, a charity that raises money for those living in the Nepalese hills.

It provides water tanks for the villagers in order to significantly change their lives, particularly the lives of women and children, from the daily grind of fetching and carrying water, often from many kilometres away.

Throughout the weekend Ms Stewart attempted to reach her contacts in Nepal to get information and on Monday afternoon made contact with a friend who is a trekker and guide for an overseas company.

He told Ms Stewart that things are bad in Kathmandu with no electricity and concerns about the water supply.

Although fairly close to the city, Ms Stewart’s friend said that aid was not getting through and that there were many, many homeless people. He told her that the Nepalese government was telling people to leave the city.

The news has distressed Ms Stewart who said: "I am worried and I want to go and see first hand what is happening.”

She believes that buses are still running in Nepal and if she can get a flight into Kathmandu, she can take a bus for the day-long journey into the hills.

She is particularly worried about the plight of the Chepang Hill people.

Ms Stewart said that many of the hill people lived in nothing more than shacks which in an earthquake would just slide off the hillside along with the terraced blocks of land that they cultivated for food.

South Pambula resident Alison Potts, worked with Jenny Stewart and late last year helped aid workers install water tanks in the Chepang Hill region.

She is now asking for donations to help the villages.

Ms Potts said she has not heard from any of the villages she visited and is unsure of the damage after the earthquake.

“We just know that whole villages have been taken out and that a lot of people have been killed.”

She said Pebbles for Nepal is hoping to raise enough money to send someone over to the Chepang Hill region.

“There is a lot of aid and food going into the country but it is all going to the higher classes nothing is getting to the poor people in the Kathmandu region.

"They are making sure the upper class is looked after first.

“If we could raise $1000 then we would be able to send someone over.

“Coming from Australia I had never seen such poverty that I just can’t imagine what it’s like there after the earthquake. We are trying to do anything we can to help.”
</text>