<url>
http://www.fifetoday.co.uk/news/local-headlines/fundraising-dinner-at-kirkcaldy-restaurant-after-devastating-nepal-earthquake-1-3758369
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Fundraising dinner at Kirkcaldy restaurant after devastating Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Staff at a Kirkcaldy restaurant who have been affected by the Nepal earthquake have organised a charity night to raise cash for the disaster fund.

Khem Sharma (37), manager at the Annapurna Thai and Chinese restaurant in the town’s High Street, along with his staff will hold a buffet evening on Sunday, May 10 from 5-10 p.m.

The devastated restaurant manager this week told the Press that he and his colleagues all know of people caught up in the disaster, with some of his kitchen staff suffering the loss of friends or former neighbours.

As the death toll from Saturday’s earthquake continues to rise, the tragedy prompted the restaurant to organise a fundraising night to help the victims and their families.

“It is so sad,” said Khem. “Although I did not lose any members of my direct family in Chitwan where I come from, I know of many people who have lost all of their homes and possessions. They have been left with absolutely nothing.

“Some of my staff who work in the kitchen have lost friends, and I had to send them home on Monday because they were too upset to work.

“We all feel so helpless because we are so far away from home, and that is why we have decided we would like to do something to try to do a little to help them.

“I asked my boss and he has agreed to let us raise some money, so people can come to eat and all the money will go to Nepal. They can also give extra donations if they wish.”

Khem explained he had worked at a restaurant in London for several years and only came to work at the Annapurna just over four weeks ago.

“I really like it here in Kirkcaldy. It is much quieter than London, but the people are very nice and have been very kind. We all hope that lots of people will come along on May 10 to help us make lots of money for the people of Nepal.”

Another local fundraising effort is also being organised by the Kirkcaldy and District Lions Club which is donating all the money raised from its forthcoming race night on May 8 in the Victoria Hotel to the Nepalese Earthquake Disaster fund.

George Macdonald, the club’s president, said funds raised from events such as the race night are distributed through Lions International to local clubs in the stricken areas which then decide on the best and most effective use of the money.

Anyone who wishes tickets for the race night can contact George on 07913 242635.

Meanwhile a Kirkcaldy woman who was reported missing in Khatmandhu in the aftermath of the earthquake has contacted her family to say she is safe.

Clothes designer Ann Hardie (47), who ran a business in Kirkcaldy High Street for many years, phoned her sons to let them know she is fine.
</text>