<url>
http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/isolation-magnifies-crisis-in-villages-after-nepal-earthquake/article24160653/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Isolation magnifies crisis in villages after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
For five years, Sanjay Silwal worked in Malaysia at a factory making chicken cubes and tomato powder. Two years ago, he returned home to Syadul, the farming village atop a steeply terraced ridge where he grew up. His wife, Sumitra, was "so happy" when he came back, and the two set to building a life growing tomatoes, bitter gourd, cabbage and radish in the rich local soil. They had a son, their second child, who is now six months old. On a clear day, you can see the Himalayas from their home.

Then the earthquake struck, killing at least 5,000 and injuring more than 10,000, the latest numbers on Wednesday. Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala warned the death toll could double, as information on damage from far-flung villages and towns has yet to come in.

No help has come to Mr. Silwal's village of 300 since the earthquake shook loose a landslide, blocking access. After a heavy rain, the road is bad enough that even a motorcycle bearing noodles needs a push through slick mud to get to the top. Those meagre supplies are all Syadul has received since the quake destroyed houses, severed phone lines, broke water-supply pipes and cut off electricity.

Story continues below advertisement

Some 80 kilometres away, in the capital of Kathmandu, stores began to reopen on Tuesday, selling food, tires, cellphones and whisky – a picture of resumed normalcy – as convoys of trucks arrived from India carrying supplies. But for Mr. Silwal and many Nepalis, broken walls will be fixed much faster than shattered lives. As the aftershocks fade, a nation plunged into tragedy has begun to take stock of a future that will, for many, be redrawn for years to come.

The shaking fractured the mud foundations of Mr. Silwal's house and peeled away an entire mud-and-stone wall, which now lay crumbled in a heap, exposing the rubble-covered furniture inside. To fix his home, they will have to tear it all down and then rebuild, at a cost of roughly $5,000 (U.S.), more than a year's income.

And so, only days after the shaking stopped, Mr. Silwal has begun making plans to leave home again, back to Malaysia, where he can send back to Nepal in a month what he would earn in a year farming the mountain slopes.

"If the earthquake didn't happen, I would stay here," said Mr. Silwal, who is 31. "I don't want to go. But I feel pulled. My children are growing. And we need to build a house."

In Syadul, families expect 25 to 30 young people will be forced to leave to earn the money it will take to rebuild – a prospect that only adds to the grief in Dhading, the district in Nepal where, as of Tuesday, 305 had been found dead. Those are the numbers for a single village and a single district; extended across Nepal, they are a picture of lives rent asunder on a massive scale.

Sabitra Silwal, 35, believed she had lost all of her children in the quake.

Her son and four daughters were napping when the tremors struck. The ground jerked so violently she felt she was jumping. In seconds, her house collapsed into a pile, her children inside. "I thought they all died," she said. Frantically, she began to dig. The children were on the ground floor of the house, and the second storey had disappeared. But the ground-floor ceiling held fast and she was able to dig them out. The only injury was to her 18-year-old daughter, who fell from her bed and twisted a knee.

Story continues below advertisement

Story continues below advertisement

"I am lucky to have all my children right now," she said.

But like others in the village, she has no home. Some houses, like hers, collapsed completely. Others lost walls; still others are cracked so badly they are uninhabitable. Virtually every house in Syadul will need to be rebuilt, leaving people scarcely able to think about farming their current crops of wheat, maize and vegetables.

"We are still in shock," said Umesh Silwal, 27, Mr. Silwal's cousin. "Psychologically, people are totally wrecked by the earthquake, not doing any of their daily activities."

Their future is further clouded by their recent past. This was once a village built on oranges, its produce some of the sweetest in Nepal – and nowhere sweeter than Syadul, where each family made $5,000 to $7,000 a year off their orchards. Then two years ago, a fungus struck, killing many of the trees. Those that didn't die grew sour fruit that can't be sold. "All the income stopped," said Umesh Silwal. "People lack money because of that." Few believe the government – or even aid agencies – will come to their rescue. Syadul is too small, too isolated.

"If they could help to build our houses, it would be better. But we don't expect that," said Lil Bahadur Shrestha, an 81-year-old man who raises bees in hollowed-out logs that still hang from his house, which now lies partly in ruin. Nearby, cattle stand in pens while chickens scamper past. Goat footprints mark the muddy trails.

All around are signs of devastation. Thum Prasad Silwal, 62, directed his children on top of his ruined house, as they use wooden posts to prop up his downed roof. They want to rescue the 700 kilograms of unhusked rice inside. They need it to eat.

Story continues below advertisement

"Our basic need right now is for a place to live," he said. Nearby, one family has salvaged dressers and a bed from their house and placed them outside, under tin and tarp for protection against the rain. Because Syadul was once a wealthy village, most families have two houses to rebuild – one to live in and one to store crops. They will use exactly the same materials as before: the same stones, sticks and slate tiles for roofs. To bring cement here, up the treacherous road, would be too expensive.

But for now, they are living outside, cooking on campfires, their houses too broken to be homes.

A villager points to a small square of tarp held up by thin wooden posts. It's barely large enough for an adult to sit under.

"That's a new house," one of the villagers said.
</text>