<url>
http://www.kentonline.co.uk/tunbridge-wells/news/do-not-give-up-hope-35907/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Rachel Lovera, from Tonbridge, returned from Nepal with pupils from Tunbridge Wells Grammar School for boys days before earthquake
</headline>

<text>
The mother of a man who survived the Nepal earthquake has told loved ones of those still missing not to give up hope - as her son remains in the country to help others caught up in the disaster.

Rachel Lovera, a teacher at Tunbridge Wells Grammar School, returned from Nepal just days before the earthquake hit - but her son remained there.

He was initially missing, but managed to make contact with his worried family to confirm he was safe on Sunday.

Rachel had accompanied 35 students to Nepal as part of a World Challenge expedition, as well as her son Sebastian - who remained in the country.

The group trekked across parts of the country, visited historic landmarks and temples before offering support to villages and schools.

Each year over 500 schools take part in the world challenge and send teams away to developing countries across the world. Students take responsibility for leading the trip and fund it themselves.

All pupils and staff from Tunbridge Wells Grammar School for Boys safely returned just over a week ago.

Mrs Lovera's son Sebastian, who was on Mount Everest when the earthquake hit, joined her as a chaperone on the trip.

After completing the World Challenge expedition he flew to Khumjung Airport where he landed on Tuesday.

He was trekking towards Mount Everest base camp with his climbing companion Emil Kaminsky when the earthquake hit.

Mrs Lovera feared for Sebastian's safety but experienced "overwhelming relief" when he made contact on Sunday.

Speaking of her shock at the devastation caused by the earthquake she said: "It's just so strange to think the temples that were there when we were no longer stand and so many years of culture have been destroyed so suddenly.

"The boys are now really worried about the schools they visited and pupils they became friends with. They are desperately worried and hoping for news.

"It's weird, I now have a sad feeling that I didn't appreciate everything enough while I was there. Now it's all gone it just disappeared. Even more worrying is the loss of life.

"It's amazing the boys got to experience it while it still stood and it's something they will remember. It was a huge relief for the parents that they were home."

Mrs Lovera said anyone who has not heard from a loved one in Nepal should not give up hope. She added: "I think it's so important to highlight the remoteness out there. Communications are so dodgy now. Just because you haven't heard anything it doesn't mean they are not safe.

"Sebastian really struggled to get in touch with us. The feeling was unimaginable but they must not give up hope."

Former Hayesbrook schoolboy Sebastian remains on Mount Everest with Emil. Speaking to the Kent Messenger he said he is in "no rush to come down".

He added: "Right now we are still at a small town called Gorak Shep about 4km from base camp. All day today we've seen people leaving either trekking down or getting helicopters out of here.

"I'm doing fine now, everyone is pretty calm at the moment. I've got no plans to leave the mountain anytime soon because of the situation in Kathmandu it's actually safer for me to stay up here.

"We are higher now than we were when the earthquake first hit. After it struck we decided not to head down but keep going up towards the top of the Everest base camp trek.

"It's a much worse situation in Kathmandu we've heard they've turned the water off and electricity.

"I managed to speak to my family only 24 hours after the earthquake hit that is the first word I managed to get out."

Mr Lovera plans to stay in the country until June 6.

His mother added: "He is kind of stranded at the moment but is going to try and stay and help. He is young and fit so he will do what he can.

"I'm worried about him travelling to base camp but now that we have contact I feel happier about it."

A Cranbrook father and daughter who dodged an avalanche on Mount Everest earlier this month said their thoughts are with all those affected by Saturday’s earthquake.

Les Turner, 67, and Anneke, 26, spent 16 days making their way up the mountain in temperatures as low as -15C before arriving at base camp 5,500m above sea level.

The pair walked through blizzards and over glaciers before narrowly escaping injury during a small avalanche.

Miss Turner, of Hawkhurst Road, said: “We were on a really narrow path and I just heard one of the guys shouting ‘run’. We had a few hairy moments but nothing compared to what happened this week. We are so lucky to be home and safe.

"The group we did the trip with have e-mailed to confirm they are all safe, so it's a big relief.

"We were lucky and had contact with home but the avalanche caused by the earthquake would have knocked out all communications I'm guessing. I can't imagine what it must be like for the people out there now."

Miss Turner returned home with her father on on April 8. The 26-year-old is now planning to climb Mount Kilimanjaro.
</text>