<url>
http://www.greenwichtime.com/local/article/Nepal-earthquake-still-taking-toll-local-6230051.php
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake still taking toll; local doctor's family 'fine'
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake still taking toll; local doctor's family 'fine'

Despite spotty phone and Internet links in the midst of one of the most devastating earthquakes to hit the country in the past 70 years, local Greenwich internist Dr. Sunil Rana said he has been able to confirm that members of his extended family in Nepal are OK.

"My parents are in India and I grew up in India, but I have genetic ties to Nepal," he said Monday. "I called my extended family there who live outside the city and they were fine. But it is a major tragedy there in the city. They have no infrastructure there.

"One of my patients who is Nepalese and lives in Westchester (N.Y.) called his family and they are fine."

The death toll from Saturday's earthquake and its aftershocks now is more than 4,600, according to reports. Survivors in Kathmandu, the capital, remained without electricity, water, sanitary facilities and gasoline. Schools and most businesses remained closed; banks did not open. Gas stations with fuel attracted long lines of cars and motorcycles.

Rain and snow have added problems to rescue attempts. Mud slides have become deadly in outlying areas.

Aid workers who had reached the edges of the epicenter described entire villages reduced to rubble.

"In some villages, about 90 percent of the houses have collapsed. They're just flattened," said Rebecca McAteer, an American physician who rushed to the quake zone from the distant Nepal hospital where she works.

Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator in Kathmandu, told reporters that 8 million people had been affected by the quake, and that 1.4 million needed food assistance.

The country's confirmed death toll rose to 4,680, said police Inspector Sharad Thapa at the Nepal Police Control Room in Kathmandu. Another 61 were killed in neighboring India, and China's official Xinhua News Agency reported 25 dead in Tibet. At least 18 of the dead were killed at Mount Everest as the quake unleashed an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing for summit attempts.

Some 8,063 people have been injured, Bam said. Tens of thousands are believed to be homeless.

Nepal is prone to earthquakes, but Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat acknowledged that the government wasn't prepared to respond to a disaster of this scale.

"Our system wasn't prepared to fix a problem of this magnitude, but the government is doing the best it can with the resources on our disposal," Mahat told state-run Radio Nepal on Monday. "All our helicopters are occupied with the rescue, so it is difficult to fly the relief materials to remote areas."

Red Cross societies were rushing to Nepal with emergency humanitarian help. The American Red Cross, working with Nepal Red Cross Society and global Red Cross network, was helping coordinate support and providing remote mapping and information management support to help assess the damage.

Nepal Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross were working to reunite families separated by the earthquake. Visit the "family links" website on the ICRC website.

The United Nations says it is releasing $15 million from its central emergency response fund for quake victims. The funds will allow international humanitarian groups to scale up operations and provide shelter, water, medical supplies and logistical services, U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq said.

According to the Red Cross, Saturday's 7.8 earthquake is the largest to hit Nepal since 1934. At least 15 aftershocks, ranging from magnitude 5 to 6.6, caused further damage to buildings.

Chief Secretary Leela Mani Paudel said at a news conference that Nepal urgently needs tents, medical teams specialized in orthopedics and collapsed-structure rescue and search teams.

Four Americans were reported to be among at least 17 people killed when an avalanche triggered by the earthquake hit a base camp used by climbers preparing to scale Mount Everest. The State Department on Monday confirmed two of them as Thomas Taplin and Vinh Truong.

Government authorities said nearly the entire 100,000-soldier Nepalese army was involved in rescue and relief operations.

The Associated Press contributed to this story.
</text>