<url>
http://www.dailyecho.co.uk/news/12921069.display/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
NEPAL QUAKE: Hampshire aid teams arrive in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Hampshire personnel have arrived in Nepal to help with the rescue operation as medical services are at ''breaking point'' after thousands were killed by the massive earthquake.

Investigations are continuing into whether a Briton was among the dead, as the Government announced it is donating a further £5 million to help relief efforts.

A team of more than 60 UK international search and rescue responders and specialist rescue dogs have arrived, with some already operating on the ground and travelling out of the capital to more remote areas, the Department for International Development (DfID) said.

The personnel are drawn from 15 Fire and Rescue Services from across the UK, and their capabilities include locating deeply buried victims, constructing timber supports to safely shore up buildings and providing advanced life support.

They were joined by an eight-strong group of expert trauma medics, and more UK medics are expected to arrive in the country in the coming days.

Rob Holden, head of the UK Emergency Medical Team said: ''We are hearing a lot of reports from the ground that there are thousands of survivors with trauma injuries who urgently need surgery - worryingly this includes the most vulnerable of society such as women and children.

''This massive earthquake has stretched medical services in an already impoverished nation to breaking point - doctors have been forced to operate around the clock and often in makeshift hospitals made of tents.

''It's simply not enough so we are keen to get on the ground and help to support them by providing surgery to those who need it most, especially women and children.''

The British public have been urged to do what they can to help in the wake of Saturday's 7.8 magnitude quake, with a televised appeal reminding people of the sacrifices made by Nepalese Gurkha soldiers as part of the British Army in decades past.

Eight million people have been affected, according to the United Nations, by a disaster which wiped out entire villages and has so far claimed the lives of more than 5,000 people.

British aid to Nepal now totals £15 million, and Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the Foreign Office is continuing to work to help identify and help British nationals in the region.

He said an RAF C-17 carrying a team of Gurkha engineers and a chartered Boeing 767 carrying rescue teams and supplies were awaiting landing slots at Kathmandu airport.

In a televised appeal on behalf of the Disasters Emergency Committee actress and Gurkha campaigner Joanna Lumley said: ''My father served with the Gurkhas, who for 200 years have sacrificed their lives for Britain. Now it's our turn to help their country.

''The Nepalese are a proud and resourceful people, who don't ask for much. But now many hundreds and thousands of them desperately need our support.''

She said that while the quake may have lasted little over a minute its devastating impact will be felt for years, adding that 2,000 years of history had been ''razed to the ground in minutes''.

Nepal's prime minister Sushil Koirala has said the death toll could eventually double.

A medical student from a British university was among those killed in avalanches on Everest.

The University of Leicester confirmed that American Dr Marisa Eve Girawong had been part-way through studies on its postgraduate mountain medicine course when she died at the peak's base camp in ice-falls triggered by the earthquake.

Dr Girawong, known as Eve, was with the Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering team when disaster struck.

Dr Peter Barry, from the university's infection, immunity and inflammation department, described her as ''a beautiful, intelligent, outgoing person who effortlessly got on with everyone''.

A number of families of British and Irish people are still awaiting news of their loved ones who may have been in the region at the time.

Members of the Nepalese and Gurkha community in the UK have spoken of their sense of helplessness at watching the ''heart-wrenching'' images on television.

More than 11,000 ex-Gurkhas have settled in the UK, many around the army town of Aldershot in Hampshire, and the entire community is focused on contacting relatives back home and providing what support they can.

Captain Gary Ghale, 60, formerly of the 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles, said communication with people in villages such as his native Gorkha was proving very difficult.

''To see all these heart-wrenching pictures, I am just praying, just praying for the safety of the people of Nepal and that help reaches people in time and there is proper sanitisation because the aftermath can kill more people than the earthquake itself,'' he said.

The UK has already pledged a £5 million package of support, including £3 million released under the Rapid Response Facility to address immediate needs on the ground and £2 million to the British Red Cross.

Disaster experts believe the earthquake will leave Nepal dependent on aid from countries such as the UK for years, and recovery from the devastation could take a decade.

Donations can be made to the DEC Nepal Earthquake Appeal at dec.org.uk, or by calling a 24 hour donation line on 0370 60 60 900.

Anyone who is caught up in the incident or worried about a family member should call the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on 020 7008 0000.
</text>