<url>
http://www.wboy.com/story/28919460/nepal-earthquake-morgantown-wv-wvu
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquakes felt across the globe in Morgantown, WV - WBOY - Clarksburg, Morgantown: News, Sports, Weather
</headline>

<text>
In September, when Glen Dale’s Reynolds Memorial Hospital launched its BreakThru program, the staff figured they’d have between five and 10 patients a month coming in for help with getting on the road to a drug-free life.

In September, when Glen Dale’s Reynolds Memorial Hospital launched its BreakThru program, the staff figured they’d have between five and 10 patients a month coming in for help with getting on the road to a drug-free life.

West Virginia’s Division of Corrections is hoping to close the door to recidivism by helping inmates with drug problems break the grip of addiction. The state already opened two 28-bed units — one for men, the other for women — at Southwestern Regional Jail to accommodate inmates sentenced to DOC custody who are serving parts of those sentences in the separately run regional jail system.

West Virginia’s Division of Corrections is hoping to close the door to recidivism by helping inmates with drug problems break the grip of addiction. The state already opened two 28-bed units — one for men, the other for women — at Southwestern Regional Jail to accommodate inmates sentenced to DOC custody who are serving parts of those sentences in the separately run regional jail system.

The West Virginia Child Advocacy Network and West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence are getting help from Verizon's HopeLine program to help those affected by domestic violence and child abuse.

The West Virginia Child Advocacy Network and West Virginia Coalition Against Domestic Violence are getting help from Verizon's HopeLine program to help those affected by domestic violence and child abuse.

Executives with ATTInternetService are offering computer sciences grants to university professors and secondary school teachers to upgrade technology in their classrooms.

Executives with ATTInternetService are offering computer sciences grants to university professors and secondary school teachers to upgrade technology in their classrooms.

The West Virginia Autism Training Center is expanding its reach in the state. WV ATC, located at Marshall University in Huntington, has partnered with Concord University to develop on-campus support in Athens for students who are diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder.

The West Virginia Autism Training Center is expanding its reach in the state. WV ATC, located at Marshall University in Huntington, has partnered with Concord University to develop on-campus support in Athens for students who are diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder.

The impact of the earthquake in Nepal is being felt more than 7,600 miles away on West Virginia University's campus in Morgantown.

According to the Associated Press, Gorkha district was the epicenter of the magnitude 7.8 earthquake on April 25.

With the weather clearing, helicopters will be able to pick up the supplies and relay to smaller villages, the AP reported.

The Associated Press said the most recent death toll from Nepal's National Emergency Operation Centre put the country's death toll at 5,057, with 10,915 injured and 454,769 internally displaced. It represented a jump of about 350 from prior figures. (DPA)

“It tore the city I grew up in into shreds and destroyed numerous historical and cultural heritage sites, while continuing to haunt our country through persistent tremors,” said Dharendra Thapa, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Exercise Physiology at the WVU School of Medicine. “My family and others have spent the past couple of nights scared in the streets with a limited supply of food, water and shelter.”

Thapa is one of 23 students from Nepal attending classes in Morgantown this semester. The University's Office of International Students and Scholars has reached out to affected students to offer help and support.

Additional services are available through the Office of Student Life and the Carruth Center.

There are currently no students studying in Nepal, said Tara George-Jones, director of study abroad in the Office of International Programs.

The death toll is expected to rise in the aftermath of the earthquake, and many people remain trapped under mounds of rubble.

A number of organizations are working in Nepal to supply aid and volunteers.

“I request all my WVU family to help my country and people in this desperate time,” she said.
</text>