<url>
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-1-315426-UKs-Gurkhas-battle-to-help-families-after-Nepal-quake
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
UK’s Gurkhas battle to help families after Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
UK’s Gurkhas battle to help families after Nepal quake

UK’s Gurkhas battle to help families after Nepal quake

LONDON: Separated by thousands of miles from their devastated homeland, Britain’s community of Gurkha soldiers past and present is rallying to help victims of the earthquake in Nepal.

The 2,500-strong Gurkha brigade, soldiers recruited in Nepal, has been part of the British army for 200 years including on the frontlines in Afghanistan and Iraq.

They are famed for their ferocity and tenacity, and they use as their symbol the curved, machete-like kukri knives which they carry in battle.

As well as serving soldiers, there are still communities of retired Gurkhas dotted around Britain who often settle near military bases after leaving the army.

“We’re trying to raise money but how we’re going to do this, I don’t know. It’s not just one village — it’s villages all over the country,” Om Prakash Gurung, chairman of the British Gurkha Veterans Association, told AFP.

“Nepal is a very poor country and our families depend on us — we’re the breadwinners,” he said.

Gurung served as a Gurkha for 22 years, following in the footsteps of his father and grandfather, and now runs a Nepalese restaurant in Nuneaton, central England.

“I feel very sad. When I watch television, I think ‘what can I do?’” he said, adding that he and other members of the town’s Nepalese community were trying to keep in touch with their families every few hours.

More than 5,000 people have died and the United Nations says a total of eight million have been affected by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake which struck mountainous Nepal on Saturday.

Dozens of serving Gurkhas flew out from Britain late on Monday to help the aid effort, along with 1,100 shelter kits and 1,700 solar lanterns, and more troops could be mobilised to help in the coming days.

A march marking 200 years of Gurkha service to Britain on Thursday is expected to include a commemoration of the earthquake victims.

Meanwhile, former Gurkhas around the country — who for years have supported relatives at home by sending money back — are trying their hardest to help their country in its hour of need.

Dhan Gurung was a Gurkha for 18 years and still lives near Shorncliffe Camp in Kent, southeast England, regimental headquarters of the Royal Gurkha Rifles.


</text>