<url>
http://www.kcra.com/news/tahoe-mountain-guide-weighs-options-on-mt-everest/32614028
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Tahoe mountain guide weighs options on Mt. Everest
</headline>

<text>
A team of Mt. Everest climbers, led by Squaw Valley-local Adrian Ballinger, may abandon their plans to climb the famed peak so they can help victims of the earthquake that rocked Nepal.

In a phone interview from the team's base camp on the north side of the mountain, Ballinger said they are weighing their options as they await word on whether anyone will be allowed to climb Mt. Everest this season.

Advertisement

"First and foremost, we are trying to see if we can mount some sort of relief effort in Nepal. That is what our Sherpa would like. That’s what our members would like. So really, climbing has taken a back burner to can we be useful in some sort of relief effort," said Ballinger from the team's 17,000 foot elevation base camp on the Tibetan side of the mountain.

They were not injured in the 7.8 earthquake that destroyed a large part of Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu and wreaked havoc on Mt. Everest's more popular south side base camp.

Ballinger said the quake triggered avalanches and rock fall all around their camp, but a large flat area protected them from any hazard.

"These went on for so much longer than I’ve ever felt before and they were truly violent," said Ballinger.

While the climbers are safe now, the earthquake has taken a toll on many of the team's Sherpa staff.

"There has been so much damage. Nine of our 12 Sherpa have lost their homes back in the Khumbu Valley and one lost his mother-in-law. She didn't escape from her house in time. So there is a lot of grieving here, and also trying to figure out what to do next," said Ballinger.



The Chinese government asked climbers on the north side to adhere to a voluntary climbing stoppage while they evaluate the safety of the mountain amid numerous aftershocks.



The Alpenglow Expeditions team is honoring the delay while looking for ways to get back into Nepal after border crossings were closed.



The team has not ruled out a climb, but is considering all of the implications caused by the quake.



"Climbing on Mt. Everest, the actual physical climbing, putting one foot in front of the other, is a very small piece of the puzzle of what makes a successful ascent. We deal with politics, developing countries, where all of the logistics and infrastructure is very challenged, we deal with natural disasters, weather, avalanches. These are all things that factor into a successful season," said Ballinger.



Ballinger has summited Mt. Everest six times, but had to scrub a trip last year due to an avalanche that killed 18 Sherpa and closed the mountain.



The highly trained team of mountaineers and survivalists would like to lend their service and equipment to some of Nepal's rural areas ravaged by the quake.



"My mountain guide team are really, really capable in really remote areas to take care of ourselves and potentially offer aid and that goes for our doctor as well who works in expedition-style environment all the time and could potentially offer aid in rural regions. There are loads of areas in Nepal I don’t think have even been looked at yet to see what the damage and destruction is," said Ballinger.



The team has solar panels for electricity, tents, sleeping bags food and water filtration equipment to name a few of the items they can bring to the aid of victims.



The Sherpa on the trip have told Ballinger they will climb if that is the will of the expedition leader since there is little they can do at home.



The climbing season accounts for most Sherpa's annual income.



Regardless of whether they get on the mountain, Ballinger noted his team will be paid.



"They've come to us and said since they don’t believe they can rebuild, they would climb. We will pay our Sherpa’s full salaries. Our team really wants to help them rebuild. It’s not a money decision right now. It’s a practical decision," said Ballinger.



Agencies like the American Red Cross are launching efforts to send aid to Nepal.



Ballinger was pleased to hear about KCRA's telethon on Wednesday to raise funds. He said donations would go a long way in one of the worlds' poorest countries.



"We often, because of Everest, forget it’s one of the poorest and least developed in the world. Their people try so hard and are so quick to offer help and a smile. This is our time to offer that back. We must have to offer that back," he said.



As the phone conversation came to a conclusion, Ballinger noted a storm was moving in and light snow was falling.



The storm would slow rescue efforts on the mountain's south side.



AlertMe
</text>