<url>
http://www.cbs8.com/story/28927971/coronado-mom-learns-son-is-safe-after-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Coronado mom learns son is safe after Nepal earthquake - CBS News 8 - San Diego, CA News Station - KFMB Channel 8
</headline>

<text>
A San Diego native finally made contact with his sister through social media after going on a hike near Mount Everest. Stephen Kennedy's family says they were worried following the earthquake in Nepal.

A San Diego native finally made contact with his sister through social media after going on a hike near Mount Everest. Stephen Kennedy's family says they were worried following the earthquake in Nepal.

Family says San Diego man missing on Mount Everest alive and well

Family says San Diego man missing on Mount Everest alive and well

A candlelight vigil was scheduled tonight UC San Diego for the victims of the massive earthquake in Nepal, where the death toll has climbed above 4,300, with almost 8,000 injured.

A candlelight vigil was scheduled tonight UC San Diego for the victims of the massive earthquake in Nepal, where the death toll has climbed above 4,300, with almost 8,000 injured.

Our hearts go out to the children, families and people of Nepal. The country is in desperate need following the deadly earthquake. San Diegans can help now by supporting humanitarian relief efforts.

Our hearts go out to the children, families and people of Nepal. The country is in desperate need following the deadly earthquake. San Diegans can help now by supporting humanitarian relief efforts.

It was the phone call Lisa Rosenbusch had been hoping for - the Coronado mother was overjoyed after hearing the good news from her husband that their son is alive.

The Rosenbusch family received a phone call Tuesday night that their son, Spencer, is fine. Spencer is featured in this video screen image.

SAN DIEGO (CBS 8) - New information has been released regarding San Diegans that have recently been found in Nepal.

The Rosenbusch family received a phone call that their son, Spencer, is fine. They received the call during a candlelight vigil at UC San Diego Tuesday night.

“He's alive and he sounds good,” said Lisa Rosenbusch.

It was the phone call Rosenbusch had been hoping for - the Coronado mother was overjoyed after hearing the good news from her husband that their son is alive.



[STORY: Kennedy family says San Diego man missing on Mount Everest alive and well]

Spencer, 21, was planning to climb Mount Everest, when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal Saturday, April 25.

The Rosenbusch family had no contact with Spencer for four days.

“Gratitude, I'm just… and the other part of it is the other people. But yeah, I can't wait to see my son,” said Rosenbusch.

The Rosenbusch family said this is a story that Spencer will be able to tell for generations.

A candlelight vigil at UCSD brought together the Nepalese community in San Diego where the Rosenbusch family received their life-changing phone call. There were many people praying for victims that are thousands of miles away.

“It feels bad. If I was there I would go help but here you can't do much,” said Shreyaish Bhattarai with the UC San Diego Nepalese Student Association.



[STORY: UC San Diego vigil for Nepal]

Meanwhile, Sarah Heldman in San Diego found out that her sister, brother-in-law and two friends are safe in the Nepal area.

"The worst part before we heard from her and not knowing if she was alive,” she said.

The group of four from San Diego - Kat Heldman, husband Kevin Krough, Oscar Olea and Brigida Martinez - were on a month-long mountain climbing adventure when the earthquake hit. An avalanche trapped them in the Langtang area. Finally Wednesday morning, the group was evacuated by a military helicopter along with a child with broken legs. Their goal is to make it to the capital of Nepal, Kathmandu, which is about 20 miles away.

"We're not sure how she will get to Kathmandu to fly out. She was talking about hiking, we said how about you catch a bus. Just get home,” added Sarah Heldman.

CBS News 8 has also learned that the group of four mountain climbers suffered minor injuries. And, the Nepalese child is being treated and his legs will not need to be amputated, as first thought.

Other San Diegans have also been found safely. According to a message on Twitter from a family member, Matt Schiavon and Dawn Lightfoot, Carlsbad and Encinitas, were traveling together and are waiting for a helicopter rescue, as of this report.

If you're interested in supporting humanitarian relief efforts in Nepal, CLICK HERE for ways to help.
</text>