<url>
http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2015/apr/28/nepal-earthquake-rescues-county-residents/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake shook up San Diego families
</headline>

<text>
The devastating quake in Nepal on Saturday still has a number of San Diego families shaking, either with continued fears for their loved ones in that nation, or relief that they are safe.

“We’ve heard of mudslides, landslides, rain, snowstorms. That’s what we’re worried about now,” said Joanna Williams in a phone interview Tuesday from her home in Santa Barbara.

Her brother, Matt Schiavon, and his girlfriend, Dawn Lightfoot, from Encinitas, were with a trekking group near the start of an 18-day hike through Nepal when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit. The couple had been teaching English in South Korea for two years and wanted to explore Southeast Asia before returning to North County and getting teaching jobs.

/ photo courtesy Yvonne Martinez Area residents Kevin Krogh, Kat Heldman, Oscar Olea and Brigida Martinez smiled in an airport as their headed to Nepal for a long-planned Himalayan climb. As of Monday, the foursome remained stranded in their base camp following a 7.8 earthquake Saturday. Area residents Kevin Krogh, Kat Heldman, Oscar Olea and Brigida Martinez smiled in an airport as their headed to Nepal for a long-planned Himalayan climb. As of Monday, the foursome remained stranded in their base camp following a 7.8 earthquake Saturday. (/ photo courtesy Yvonne Martinez)

Williams said the travel company president told her on Sunday that he’d heard from the trek guide on Saturday, and his group was fine then. There have been no more communications from the guide since.

“I feel that they’re fine,” Williams said. “They’re probably helping other people. They are well-seasoned travelers. Waiting to hear is the hardest thing.”

Caroline Heldman of Los Angeles has had better luck hearing from her sister Kathleen “Kat” Heldman and husband Kevin Krogh every 12 hours by satellite phone.

/ Courtesy of family Erin Green of Poway was in Nepal teaching, and survived the quake safely in Kathmandu. Erin Green of Poway was in Nepal teaching, and survived the quake safely in Kathmandu. (/ Courtesy of family)

She talked to Kathleen early Tuesday, learning that supplies had been coptered in to the mountainous Langtang region where Heldman and Krogh, both 40, of Encinitas, Oscar Olea of El Cajon and Brigida Martinez, 40, of San Diego, were sharing a tent as food dwindled.

None of the four was injured, but at least 20 others in the area have been airlifted out with major injuries, Caroline Heldman said. She said she expects the four to be evacuated out of the mountains in a day or two. She has raised about $27,000 online to help the foursome return home, with excess funds to go to other victims and aid groups.

/ Courtesy of family Will Clements, of Poway, at Lindberg Field before heading to Nepal. He rode out the quake in the capital then flew out to South Korea. Will Clements, of Poway, at Lindberg Field before heading to Nepal. He rode out the quake in the capital then flew out to South Korea. (/ Courtesy of family)

“They’re not out of the woods yet but their spirits have been raised by the food and aspirin,” Caroline Heldman said. She said Martinez, a nurse who travels the world on medical missions to help children with heart ailments, plans to stay on in Nepal and help with the injured.

Mary Lou Green, of Carlsbad, has been in touch by cellphone and email with her daughter, Erin Green, 37, who has been living in Kathmandu for 15 months, teaching adults English. Green, a graduate of University of San Diego High School, taught in China, Thailand and England, then landed the Nepal job.

Her apartment and the school where she works have survived the quake, but she took refuge in the Italian restaurant run by Russian friends in the capital, her mother said.

She said before she even knew of the quake, she got a brief call from Erin at 2:30 a.m. Saturday saying, “I’m OK, call me back.” They connected on Sunday, and since then Erin has blog-posted commentaries on what it was like to be in a 100-year-old hotel attending a tattoo artist convention with the building began rocking.

“People just fled to the middle of the roads and sat there,” Erin posted on Tuesday. “And that is pretty much what people are doing now.”

Jane Clements of Poway expressed relief that her son, Will Clements, 27, a 2006 Poway High graduate, has safely left Nepal after riding out the quake in his hotel in the capital. He had been teaching English in South Korea on and off for three years, and was taking his dream 35-day vacation in Nepal.

He was to attend a photo workshop before going trekking with a sherpa, and had been there two days when the quake hit, his mother said. He phoned her that day and sounded scared, she said. “He said he’d seen things he wished he’d never seen” Clements said.

Will got to the U.S. Embassy, then caught a flight to Hong Kong and back to South Korea. He will head home in about a week, his mother said.
</text>