<url>
http://tvnz.co.nz/world-news/french-spiderman-climbs-210-metre-paris-tower-in-nepal-earthquake-tribute-6303836
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
French 'Spiderman' climbs 210-metre Paris tower in Nepal earthquake tribute
</headline>

<text>
Alain Robert, dubbed France's "Spiderman," climbed a 210-metre tower in Paris overnight as an act of solidarity with the victims of Saturday's 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal.

People gathered to watch as Robert, 53, carried a Nepalese flag during his climb up the Montparnasse skyscraper.

Robert took less than an hour to scale the tower and was not wearing a security harness.

Before taking up the challenge, he said he wanted to do the climb to pay respect to the quake's victims in Nepal and to encourage those who are still fighting for their lives.

The death toll from the devastating quake has now passed 5000 with around 8000 injured.

The United Nations has estimated eight million people have been affected.

Hungry and desperate villagers have rushed towards relief helicopters in remote areas of Nepal, begging to be airlifted to safety, four days after the devastating quake.

"The ground keeps shaking, even this morning it did. Every time it feels like we will be swallowed, that we will die now. I want to get out of here!" said Sita Gurung, 24, whose home had been wrecked.

As the Himalayan nation's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said getting help to remote areas was a "major challenge", aid finally began reaching areas that had to fend for themselves since the quake.

In a televised address this morning, Koirala declared three days of national mourning for the 5057 people known to have perished in Nepal alone.

In Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, terrified residents ran with outstretched arms towards an Indian army helicopter to plead for food and water.

In a sign of how difficult conditions are, Nepalese official Uddav Prasad Bhattarai said 250 people were feared missing after an avalanche yesterday on the popular Langtang trekking route.

With fears rising of food and water shortages, Nepalis were rushing to stores and petrol stations to stock up on essential supplies in the capital Kathmandu.

Nepal has declared a state of emergency after the disaster, its deadliest in more than 80 years.

Families who work in Kathmandu were packing onto buses - some even sitting on the roofs - in an exodus from the city.

Those who remained in the capital were sleeping outdoors in tents in parks and other open spaces. Many had lost their houses, others were too terrified to return home after several powerful aftershocks.

With just plastic sheets to protect them from the elements, many were desperate for aid and information on what to do next.
</text>