<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/dominion-post/news/wellington/68146381/hillary-and-tenzings-sons-shelter-in-the-same-nepali-village-postquake
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Sons of Hillary and Tenzing shelter in same Nepali village post-quake
</headline>

<text>
Sons of Hillary and Tenzing shelter in same Nepali village post-quake

Reuters Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay after becoming the first to climb Mt Everest in 1953.

The mountaineering sons of the world's best-known climbers have been sheltering in the same Nepali village near Mt Everest after surviving Saturday's killer quake.

By coincidence, Peter Hillary, 60, and Jamling Tenzing Norgay, 50, were leading separate trekking groups to the mountain's base camp when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck. Both were unhurt, but the quake unleashed a massive avalanche that devastated base camp and killed at least 18 people.

The pair have long been friends, and joined an anniversary expedition to Everest in 2003 to mark 50 years since Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first to stand on the 8848m summit.

Supplied Mt Everest

Hillary's wife, Yvonne Oomen, said on Wednesday that he had been leading a group of 11 fellow former King's College classmates on a "trip of a lifetime".

They had been only a few hours from base camp when the quake struck, but backtracked and walked down the Khumbu Valley to Tengboche, the home of a famous monastery.

His party was unharmed in the quake, though one member, Auckland businessman Greg Kay, 61, died suddenly in his sleep overnight on Saturday at their lodge at Tengboche, she said.

supplied Jamling Tenzing Norgay, the son of Tenzing Norgay, who was leading a trek near Mt Everest when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal.

The Kay family has publicly said a heart attack was the suspected cause of death.

Oomen said phone communication with her husband had been challenging, but he had managed to send some texts.

"Tengboche Monastery is damaged and all villages have extreme damage, including Namche and Khunde," Hillary wrote in one text.

&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;

Oomen said she was unaware Norgay had also been trekking to base camp, and planned to ask Hillary about whether the friends had met while in Tengboche.

Hillary's group left Tengboche on Sunday and walked down the valley, aiming to reach Lukla by Wednesday, where they started their journey. "They've been doing some big days to get out."

She said the group would wait for a flight to Kathmandu from Lukla Airport, which Sir Edmund Hillary helped to build.

"Most people will be wanting to get out, so I don't know what the flights will be like.

"They've had a fairly horrific last few days. They have not been aware of all the devastation in Kathmandu, so that's another whole horror that they will have to face."

Norgay was leading a group of 10 young Indian women for Indian adventure company Mercury Himalayan Exploration, to mark 50 years since the first Indian climbed Everest.

The company's business development head, Dilshad Master, said the group, including Norgay, were close to Tengboche on Saturday so they walked there in the quake's aftermath.

Norgay, who called the company via satellite phone twice a day, had said they were all safe and well. "He didn't tell me that Peter was there."

- Stuff
</text>