<url>
http://www.courant.com/opinion/op-ed/hc-op-kerner-rattled-by-nepal-earthquake-0429-20150428-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
CT Man Shaken By Earthquake, Now Aiding Survivors
</headline>

<text>
On Saturday, I was walking with friends around pristine Bengas Lake in the Himalayas beneath the Annapurna Mountain Range in Nepal. We were approaching a few small homes when I heard a tin roof on one of the houses starting to rattle — a sound like wind shaking the roof. I asked our guide what was going on, but before he could answer, the earth started to violently roll.

I have never experienced an earthquake. I was paralyzed with fear. The three of us grabbed on to each other. I remember the sound of dogs barking and my colleague, who was from California, reassuring me it would be over soon.

But it didn't seem to end!

I took her hand and put it on my heart, which was beating seriously fast. I think this was my way of telling her I was really scared.

The quake lasted little more than a minute (which is very long for earthquakes) – but it felt like an eternity.

I had arrived in Nepal a week earlier as part of my work in adolescent health programs for Save the Children. This is my 10th visit to Nepal, but until now I had never seen the mountains because I work in the Terria region, which is on the plains in the south of the country.

I had decided to fly to Pokhara to see the majestic Himalayan mountains. I was so excited to finally see them, something I could share with my wife and children (ages 7, 5 and 10 months) back in Fairfield when we connected on FaceTime.

At first, we didn't know the extent of the damage. Our guide heard it was a 2.9 magnitude quake, so we started to brush off the severity. It wasn't until hours later that we realized it was a 7.8 magnitude quake and a national emergency had been declared. By the time I got back to my hotel to call my wife, she had been awake for two hours and was frantically trying to contact me. We both cried when we finally talked.

First thing the next morning, we headed the 125 miles back to Save the Children headquarters in Kathmandu, where our staff was responding to the disaster. As we traveled, the destruction became evident. So many homes were damaged and destroyed. The aftershocks make it unsafe to be inside and the fear is still palpable several days after the first quake. The unknown of when the aftershocks will end is the hardest thing for everyone to deal with, especially the children.

We, and everyone in Kathmandu, are sleeping outside under flimsy tarps. It has been cold and it rained Monday night, as if people don't have enough to deal with. But we are very thankful to have electricity.

Our teams have worked around the clock ever since the earthquake struck. Save the Children shifted our operations from normal, everyday programs to a full emergency response. Our more than 500 staff members, who are scared themselves and worried about their families, came together to help the children. We have distributed emergency supplies such as tarps and other materials that children and families need to survive (baby kits, blankets, water, soap).

Assessments on the health, education and protection needs of children are starting. As a public health professional, I have great concern about the potential for the spread of disease in the coming days as supplies of clean water diminish and people continue to sleep and gather in open spaces. With little or no access to clean water and proper sanitation, conditions are ripe for diarrheal diseases such as cholera.

Save the Children is working to keep children safe from harm and help families recover from the earthquake. But the needs are tremendous and we need the support of the American public. We are grateful for the outpouring of support from our donors that will enable us to give children what they need to survive this horrific disaster and recover.

This crisis will be old news fast, but the Nepalese people will be recovering from this disaster, both the physical environment and emotionally, for many years.

Brad Kerner lives in Fairfield. More information about the earthquake relief effort is available at savethechildren.org.
</text>