<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/children-nepals-rural-areas-are-priority-plan
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Children in Nepal's rural areas are a priority for Plan
</headline>

<text>
28 April 2015: As the scale of destruction from the Nepal earthquake becomes clearer, the needs of rural communities outside Kathmandu are particularly severe.

Plan International already works in the rural areas outside Kathmandu and has committed to focus its response on communities in the remotest areas that aid might otherwise struggle to reach, leaving those people particularly vulnerable.

According to Dr Unni Krishnan, Plan International’s Head of Disaster Response and Preparedness: “Given the type of terrain in Nepal, it is crucial to extend the search and rescue measures to rural areas outside Kathmandu. Rural areas are likely to be hit badly, especially since vulnerable people, including children, will have been most affected.

"Only when we have assessed the situation outside Kathmandu will the true picture emerge. Our priority is to ensure children and vulnerable people are moved to safety."

Children are particularly vulnerable in natural disasters. Making sure their core needs are met, including shelter, water, health care and protection, will be among Plan’s immediate priorities.

Relief distribution

A team of experts experienced in emergency response is focused on the immediate needs assessment and relief distribution. They have been deployed to assess immediate needs in areas including: the Kathmandu valley and the districts of Ramechhap, Tanahun, Makwanpur, Sindhuli and Baglung.

Distribution of initial relief supplies including blankets, mosquito nets and education kits has begun in Makwanpur and Sindhuli. The supplies arrived in lorries from Plan’s office in Birgunj at the Indian border to the south.

Keeping children warm

Plan’s Mike Thiedke who is in Makwanpur said: “The nights here in the mountainous area are quite cold and people are not set up to sleep outside, especially with very young children, including infants. Plan's distribution including blankets will be a first outreach which at least allows people not to freeze.”

Plan International has been working in Nepal since 1978, helping poor children to access their rights to health, education, economic security and protection. We are using the generous support from our Plan supporters worldwide to get help to where it is most needed now.

Please support the emergency appeal»
</text>