<url>
http://bernews.com/2015/04/katkids-seeks-donations/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
KATKiDS Aims To Raise Funds For Nepal Relief - Bernews
</headline>

<text>
In response to the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal recently, Bermuda charity KATKiDS is seeking financial donations for the two Nepali organisations they support, which now urgently need emergency funds.

KATKiDS, an independent Bermuda charity, raises funds for charities in Bermuda, Southern Africa and Nepal. Two charities in Nepal are supported by KATKiDS: Gentle Rain Nepal works with at risk children in Kathmandu, Nepal and Asha Nepal is a human rights organisation dedicated to the social and economic empowerment of women and children affected by sex trafficking in Nepal.

The projects of both Nepali charities were visited by KATKiDS Director and Events Manager, Francesca Cacace, in September, 2014 and by KATKiDS Chair, Jennie Lee O’Donnell in March, 2015.

Photo courtesy of Asha Nepal:

Since the earthquake KATKiDS has learned that all children in residence at Asha Nepal in Kathmandu are safe and unhurt although Asha Nepal has structural damage to one of their residential homes.

Gentle Rain Nepal president, Mohan Bohara, and other team members are safe and in contact with KATKiDS and also in close communication with Gentle Rain founder and Bermuda resident, Tracy Tepper. Gentle Rain is working to determine the status of all of the individual children they support with scholarships, food and clothing.

A spokesperson said, “Specific details are slowly coming in but the Nepali staff of both charities say conditions throughout Nepal are difficult and frightening. Strong aftershocks continue. Despite rain and crowded, primitive tent conditions, people are scared to go indoors for fear additional aftershocks cause further building collapse.

“Food, water, shelter and cooking fuel have become a priority. Cholera is endemic in Nepal so broken sewers and disrupted water supplies are now potential dangers to public health.”

The BBC reports on the earthquake’s aftermath in Nepal:

“KATKiDS seeks financial contributions for Asha Nepal and Gentle Rain Nepal, who will need additional funds for water, food, medical supplies and temporary shelter and other extra expenses they will face during this crisis.

“If members of the Bermuda public would like to donate any amount at all, please go to bdatix.bm or www.katkids.com.

“KATKiDS pledges to send 100% of funds donated directly to our partner charities in Nepal without dilution beyond banking fees. KATKiDS Facebook page will have regular updates about Asha Nepal and Gentle Rain Nepal and the situation on the ground as new details are learned.

“KATKiDS would like to thank its loyal supporters for thinking of those who are facing staggering devastation, and for all efforts to help the people of Nepal.”

Read More About

Category: All, News
</text>