<url>
http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-aid-diplomacy-unites-even-archrivals-2081549
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Aid diplomacy unites even archrivals
</headline>

<text>
Indian sniffer dogs looking for dead and injured behind the heaps of rubble. French technicians scanning debris with state-of-the-art equipment. Israeli doctors attending patients and a Pakistani aid worker helping an injured to reach a 30-bed mobile hospital set up by his country.

They may be archrivals, but the tragedy in Nepal has united them all on ground to provide assistance to the Himalayan nation.

Ambassador of Nepal to India Deep Upadhyay was particularly overwhelmed by India's help. "It is only because of the assistance from India that we have managed build such a rescue operation. Within an hour I was lucky to get calls from (the Indian) Prime Minister and Home Minister and, later, from Delhi chief minister. Within seven hours, Indian rescue teams reached there," he said.

Taking cue from India, international community from China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka to the Arab and European Union countries have turned to "aid diplomacy" to help Nepal come out of shock. Chinese rescuers in red uniforms have been searching for survivors in Kathmandu.

Within four hours of the earthquake India dispatched the Indian Air Force's first C-130J super Hercules aircraft with members of the National Disaster Response Force.

So far IAF has airlifted a total of 4,000 persons, flying a total of 36 fixed-wing sorties by C-17 Globemaster III, IL-76, C130J Super Hercules and AN-32 aircraft landing relief material and equipment. A total of 8 IAF Medium Lift Helicopters (MLH) are positioned in Nepal out of which six are in Kathmandu and two at the epicentre of Pokhra, which are involved with extensive rescue and relief operations.

Not to be left behind, Pakistan has so far sent four Air Force aircraft, including a 30-bed mobile hospital. Pakistan high commission spokesman Manzoor Memmon said 2,000 meals, bottled water, medicines, 200 tents, and 600 blankets have been dispatched till now.

"In line with prime minister Nawaz Sharif's directive, the two C-130s which reached Kathmandu today (on are carrying a medical team of doctors and paramedics, a 30-bed hospital, medicines, tents, water, dry food, and a search and rescue team with equipment," he said. Israel has also sent a 260-member team to Nepal on two hired Boeing 747 jumbo jets. The mission comprises a medical staff of 122 doctors, nurses and paramedics. An Israeli embassy spokesperson here said part of the team is already engaged in search-and-rescue operations. The medics and other support staff has set up a full field hospital.China has also rushed to offer assistance, and said it will provide $3.3 million in aid — the same as the entire EU. Their commerce ministry said it is providing tents, blankets generators. It has also sent a 62-member search-and-rescue team.

We are there to rebuild your lives: Modi

Meanwhile, prime minister Narendra Modi during his joint media interaction with the visiting Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, offered India's expertise in space science and satellites to help South Asian nations to predict disasters. "We are meeting in the shadow of the horrible calamity in Nepal. President Ghani and I speak for our two countries, South Asia and the world to the people of Nepal. We will do everything possible with rescue and relief. And, we will certainly be there when you rebuild your lives and reconstruct your homes and heritage," he said.
</text>