<url>
http://www.stargazette.com/story/news/local/2015/04/29/water-aid-nepal/26577551/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Elmira Heights man hopes to bring clean water to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Buy Photo David Pearson of Elmira Heights, founder of the water aid charity, I Thirst International, will head to earthquake-stricken Nepal next week with filters that will make water safe to drink for thousands of residents there. (Photo: BOB JAMIESON / STAFF PHOTO)Buy Photo

David Pearson has seen the Himalayas from hundreds of miles away. Next week, he expects to see them close-up when he travels to earthquake-stricken Nepal.

The Elmira Heights man plans to go there May 8 or 9, outfitted with six duffle bags full of portable filters that he said will make dirty water clean for thousands lacking it in the country.

Pearson and his wife, Cynthia, run a registered nonprofit charity, I Thirst International, which they call the "water arm" of Impact Nations, a Christian relief organization based in British Columbia. Both grew up in missionary families.

The past several years, they have traveled to India, Philippines, Haiti and Cambodia, places lacking clean water because of poverty or natural disasters. They say their setup of a gravity-fed cartridge filter, short hose and 5-gallon bucket can filter 100 to 500 gallons of water daily for five to 10 years and costs only $75, including transportation to destination countries.

A 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, killing more than an estimated 5,000 people, a toll that keeps climbing, and affecting 8 million Nepalese. The United Nations is appealing for $415 million in aid over the next three months.

"Nepal is the seventh-poorest nation on Earth," Pearson said. "They already had a huge water problem. A large percentage of the rural population gets water right out of the rivers. Thousands die from water-borne diseases as it is. Earthquakes damage wells, break up water systems. Tent cities are popping up all over the place."

(Photo: PROVIDED)

Pearson, a representative of the Rochester-based Ugandan Water Project, and up to two other people plan to travel as a group and fly next week from New York City to Nepal. He raises funds through his charity's website and gets support from other humanitarian groups, including Impact Nations.

"We have to go self-contained. We will not be staying with anyone. We have to bring tents, food, everything to take care of ourselves for about 10 to 14 days," he said.

Back home, he said veteran employees, including family members, will run his business, Pearson Seamless Gutters, in his absence.

His initial destination is Nepal's second-largest city, Pokhara, population 255,000, which is within 30 miles of some of the world's highest mountains. He will use that as a staging area, then network with other aid organizations to find more rural and remote areas in need of clean water. There will be roadblocks, literally.

"From what I have been reading, there are hundreds of small villages that have been flattened on the mountaintops. Those places are mostly inaccessible, except by helicopter, and cut off by landslides," Pearson said.

He has been in touch with people in Nepal who told him the country is beset by hopelessness and fear. He was told many sleep in the streets for fear of buildings toppling from aftershocks, including the distributor for the Florida-based company that makes the filters he supplies, Sawyer Products. That distributor, in Kathmandu, the capital, has seen his supply of 400 water filters depleted.

The compact filter system needs only gravity, tubing and a bucket to work. It can transform muddy, brown water into a clear liquid and removes all the worms and parasites, Pearson said. It uses tightly bundled tubes with 0.1-micron openings to mechanically cleanse the water. On some trips, they use anti-parasite medicine, too. The public can buy variations of the filters online and in retail stores.

Pearson said he plans to bring at least 400 filters, which will supply clean water for 8,000 people, and can transport up to 900 filters — the number will depend on donations.

"We have our plane ticket money already," Pearson said. "If someone wants to donate or partner with us, we can put that toward the filters."

Cynthia Pearson accompanies her husband on aid trips, such as ones they made to Haiti in February, and Cambodia and the Philippines in January. Sometimes their four grown children travel with them. She does not go on the disaster relief trips, such as Nepal.

"Definitely there is some concern, but I found that I can't live consumed by worry because then we would never step out of our box and help those around us," she said. "Every adventure entails a risk."

On some trips, she said her husband has had access to a satellite phone. He may be able to use his cellphone to call from Nepal. "I don't plan to hear from him once he is in country. If I do, it is an added bonus," she said.

"We want to be a voice of hope when we go," David Pearson said. "We want to bring hope."

Follow Bob Jamieson on Twitter @SGBob

How to help

Aid organizations worldwide, including the Red Cross and Salvation Army, are accepting donations for disaster relief in Nepal. I Thirst International, a registered charity in Elmira Heights, is among them.

•I Thirst International: ithirstinternational.org

Read or Share this story: http://stargaz.tt/1zpw1ql
</text>