<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-earthquake-man-pulled-rubble-5605773
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Man pulled from rubble drank his own urine to survive for four days
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A man pulled from the rubble of a collapsed hotel by a French rescue team more than three days after the Nepal earthquake says he drunk his own urine to survive.

Rishi Khanal, 27, had just finished lunch at a hotel in Kathmandu and had gone up to the second floor when the building suddenly started to move and fall apart. He was struck by falling masonry and his foot became trapped under rubble.

“I had some hope but by yesterday I’d given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked … I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die,” he said from his hospital bed on Wednesday.

Khanal was surrounded by dead bodies and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this attracted the attention of a French rescue team, which extracted him after an operation lasting several hours. By the time he was pulled out, Khanal had been trapped – in what could have become his tomb – for 82 hours.

“There was no sound going out, or coming in. I kept banging against the rubble and finally someone responded and came to help. I hadn’t eaten or had anything to drink so I drank my own urine.”

British rescue workers began combing shattered buildings with dogs and specialist listening equipment yesterday as the desperate search continues for survivors of the Nepal earthquake.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

The Mirror spent 24 hours with the first UK search and rescue team at work as they began inching through the devastated Sindhupalchowk region.

We saw the gratitude on frightened and grief-stricken faces as firemen from Essex and Aberdeen and their dogs got to work on buildings where they had kept vigil for five days.

Whole communities got behind the British technical experts, ensuring that no-one took a step or uttered a word as microphones so sensitive they can detect a heartbeat were threaded into cracks in crumpled ruins.

Hope was fading after five days of torrential rain and aftershocks but the ten-man team from UK search and rescue charity Serve On and the Government-funded UK International Search and Rescue were determined to press on.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Firefighter John Ball, 50, from Colchester, Essex, flew to Kathmandu with his ten-year-old collie Darcy.

“We are a specialised part of the search and rescue effort,” he said. “We are here to locate any live people trapped under the rubble.

“Darcy is trained to detect any live scent coming. She’s not here to find dead people.

“The clock is running out for these people. As the time passes the chance of anyone surviving becomes more remote.

“There is widespread damage up here and we have a large area to clear.”

Without water, even a healthy person with no injuries is unlikely to live longer than four days. But those with a broken tap or some water supplies can live for longer.

Locals direct the men to a mill, almost totally destroyed, where missing 13-year-old Uddhav Karki was last seen.

His uncle, Krishnabahadur Karki, 68, said: “Uddhav came here with my wife on Saturday morning to grind the mustard seeds to make oil.

“There were seven people trapped here by the earthquake. Three people were brought out dead and three people were rescued alive. One was my wife. But we have not found Uddhav.”

After clearing the crowds, fireman Gary Carroll, 45, from Aberdeen, sends his English Springer Spaniel Diesel, aged 5, into the remains of the mill.

He scampers over the rocks, a bell on his harness telling Gary where he is at all times.

In a matter of minutes, the search is over and Diesel has drawn a blank.

Next John does the same with Darcy but again the dogs fail to detect the “live smell” they have been trained to hunt out since they were pups.

Barely a hundred yards down the road, the brother of 45-year-old teacher Suresh Shrestha wants help.

Suresh had taken his motorbike to the workshop opposite his house when the earthquake struck and the four story building above it collapsed.

Diesel and Darcy once again failed to find hope but the Serve On team turn their microphones onto a small gap. The first floor has collapsed almost to ground level, leaving a small wedge of space where the bike workshop had once been.

After a shout of “silence” to all within 50 feet, Peter Old, 55, from Shrewsbury, makes three loud bangs with a crow bar. His colleague with the headphones strains to hear any response.

The volunteers train hard to block out the background noise. “We can hear a mouse pass wind with this kit,” said one.

There is a noise from the building but it could be the dripping of a broken pipe.

British telecoms engineer Simon Thomasson climbs into the teetering building and crawls on his belly into the gap that could have saved Suresh’s life.

An aftershock shakes the ground and the onlookers tense. Simon shouts out for a description of what Suresh was wearing. He emerges with bad news - he found a corpse in pools of oil and petrol in a gap between crushed motorbikes.

And so it continues, from one desperate family to the next.

Our journey began 24 hours earlier at the British Gurkha Headquarters in Kathmandu. We travelled in convoy in fading light through picture postcard countryside so beautiful that it jarred with the devastation along the road.

Overlooking the Kathmandu valley, a 140 foot tall metal statue of the Hindu god Shiva is still standing - a miracle say locals.

But thousands of them have not been so lucky. The confirmed death toll in Sindhupalchowk is nearly 1,400.

This remote district has just one percent of Nepal’s population but more than one quarter of the known deaths so far.

Three hours drive up steep mountain roads, some villagers were angry at the luck of help and frustrated to see vehicles passing without aid.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

They barricaded the road with ten vehicles and a volatile mob had formed to around an aid team from Save the Children earlier in the day.

After an hour of tense negotiations with the police and army we were free to continue, inching our vehicles around mudslides and rubble.

The smell of the dead has begun to rise from houses reduced piles of stone and timber.

Police refused to let the team start work until the morning, as flatted houses cling to sharp drops on either side of the road.

We spent a night camped outside an emergency field hospital, as a huge thunder storm brought fresh problems for the relief effort. We felt every tremor as we lay on the hard ground, the aftershocks that mean millions are still sleeping under canvas rather than risk being inside.

The morning light revealed dozens of walking wounded, young and old. In villages more than two days walk away are more, too injured to make the trip.

Escaped prisoner Mohammed Udam, a 60 year old man originally from Pakistan, begged us for a lift to Kathmandu. He said they prison collapsed during the earthquake and all the inmates escaped.

There is no running water in this area and no sanitation. If help does not come soon, the death toll in Nepal will soon continue to rise.

How to help

You can donate to the Nepal aid appeals through: Oxfam; UNICEF, text ‘DONATE’ to 70123; ActionAid; British Red Cross, or call 0300 023 0816; Save The Children
</text>