<url>
http://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/the-earthquake-has-shaken-our-nation-nepalese-calgarians-come-together-to-support-quake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
'The earthquake has shaken our nation'; Nepalese Calgarians come together to support quake victims
</headline>

<text>
The home Prasanna Man Shrestha grew up in is destroyed, and nearby monuments and roads are wiped out.

Like many Nepalese-Calgarians, Shrestha frantically tried to connect with his family and friends back home early Saturday, after learning that a 7.8 magnitude earthquake had struck outside Kathmandu, leaving hundreds dead.

“Only a few phone lines are working…It’s hard to reach anyone at home,” said Shrestha, the president of the Calgary Nepalese Community Association.

When Shrestha, who grew up in the Kathmandu Valley and left the South Asian country in 1999, eventually connected with his older brother on Saturday, he was relieved to hear that his family members are alive.

“I was able to talk to him on the phone…He was so hurried. He only said a little bit,” Shrestha said.

Shrestha organized an emergency meeting on Saturday afternoon at his house for Calgary Nepalese Community Association members, to discuss how the community, and Calgarians, can help Nepal in the wake of the destruction.

The group is asking citizens to participate in locally and internationally organized fundraising initiatives to help Nepal recover from the earthquake that’s killed more than 2,500 people.

“When I saw the news, I couldn’t believe it…. It’s a massive one and very destructive,” Shrestha said.

In a prepared statement, the Calgary Nepalese Community Association urged members to stay strong and come together to support the rescue efforts in Nepal.

“The earthquake has shaken our nation and all of us. It is a difficult time for all of us being a Nepali in this situation,” said the statement.

There are at least 388 Canadians registered as being in Nepal, according to The Foreign Affairs Department.

Cam Dobranski, the owner of Winebar & Brasserie Kensington, and his fiancée Jacq recently left Calgary and flew to Nepal to get married.

The couple were hiking in the mountains near Kathmandu, when the earthquake struck, according to family.

On Saturday, Cam’s brother Chris Dobranski said he was relieved to hear from his father that the couple are safe, but noted details are very limited.

“They were on a trek when it hit. They told my dad there were slides all around them,” Dobranski said.

Dobranski said the conversation between his brother and father was cut short, and they haven’t been able to connect since.

“We still don’t know where they are, or if they’re stuck on a mountain,” he said.

In addition to wrecking havoc near Kathmandu, the quake unleashed an avalanche on Mount Everest – where several people were found dead at base camp – at one of the most popular seasons to scale the peak.

It’s believed at least two people from the Calgary area were on the mountain at the time of the quake, but reports indicate both are okay.

According to her blog, Nancy Hansen, a Canmore-based climber and Alpine Club of Canada Ambassador, is on Everest. In a Facebook post, the Alpine Clup of Canada said Hansen was accounted for.

Raphael Slawinski, a Mount Royal University physics professor, has also been blogging about an April trip to the mountain.

Meanwhile, Samaritan’s Purse is sending staff and supplies to the scene of the quake, and ShelterBox, an international charity that delivers customized boxes of aid to people affected by disasters, is also sending team members to Nepal.

A team of two people from the United Kingdom were en route to the country Saturday, and will soon assess needs, said ShelterBox Canada Operations Manager Stephanie Christensen.

It’s likely more people, including staff or volunteers from Canada, will travel to the country to help once the extent of damage and aid needed is known.

“It’s hard to tell how bad it is until we can have feet on the ground,” Christensen said.

with files from Canadian Press

AKlingbeil@calgaryherald.com
</text>