<url>
http://www.mid-day.com/articles/10-mumbai-doctors-to-set-up-medical-camp-in-kathmandu/16171192
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 10 Mumbai doctors to set up medical camp in Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
A group of doctors from the city is all ready to leave for Nepal to help the victims of the devastating earthquake that destroyed the mountain kingdom. Assembled by a prominent doctor couple, the team of 10 doctors and a clinical assistant will leave for Kathmandu tomorrow.

Nepal earthquake: Rescued Kalyan resident considers his 64th birthday a rebirth



Drs Anjana and Amit Thadani at a medical camp in Uttarakhand, when floods ravaged the state in 2013

Led by Drs Anjana and Amit Thadani, a doctor couple from Navi Mumbai, the team comprises eight other specialist doctors from the city and a clinical assistant. The group, in all, has expertise in trauma, gynaecology, general medicine, cardiology, paediatrics and orthopaedics.



A field hospital set up in Kathmandu by the Army for earthquake victims. Pic/PTI

The team has already coordinated with volunteers and a few government hospitals in Kathmandu; they will set up a medical camp in the city to provide prompt medical assistance to the affected residents as well as tourists.



A Nepalese resident injured in the earthquake waits in an ambulance after being rescued from a village at Pokhara airport yesterday. Pic/AFP

“We consider this more as an obligation; we are doctors and wish to give back to society,” said Dr Amit, a trauma surgeon, who has a private practice and also consults with Apollo and Sushrut hospitals.



The Nepali community in the city came together at the Siddhivinayak Temple yesterday, to pray for the victims of the earthquake back home. The tragedy has claimed over 5,000 lives. Pic/Bipin Kokate

Ready to help

Most of the group had volunteered to work in the affected areas of Uttarakhand, after floods wreaked havoc on the northern state in 2013; they had collaborated with an NGO called Gayatri Parivar. “As soon as we came to know about this tragedy, our first reaction was to reach there and help those who aren’t able to get medical assistance.



Many doctors from the group had participated in relief work during the Uttarakhand floods of 2013

We contacted our fellow specialist doctors, who readily agreed to volunteer for the job,” said Dr Anjana, who is a consultant paediatrician with KEM Hospital. Along with equipment, the doctors are carrying medicines worth Rs 1.5 lakh – most of which are for treating injuries and trauma.



Drs Anjana and Amit Thadani

The team will join another group of doctors, which is already in Kathmandu doing relief work. The joint medical force will then proceed to the interiors of the country, which have been deprived medical aid. When asked if they would also be conducting surgeries and assisting local hospitals in the same, Dr Amit said they are already in touch with local hospitals.

“As of now, we are walking into unknown territory with a variety of possible hurdles in mind. Only after reaching there will we know the true depth of the situation. If necessary, we will conduct surgeries as well. We will help in any way possible,” he stated. All of them will stay there for at least a week; some may even extend their visit depending on requirements.

Nepal Earthquake: Everest dreams crushed, 14-year-olds from Pune help others in Nepal

“We have received 11 confirmations and five more doctors from Delhi are with us in the initiative. They will join us directly in Kathmandu. We will be happy to have many more volunteers (doctors or medical staff),” Dr Anjana told mid-day. Each person has spent around Rs 25,000 on travel and will be carrying tents and sleeping bags for their stay in Kathmandu.

None has contacted the BMC or public health department for receiving donations. “It’s our own initiative, and we are all geared up to face the challenges and treat those who have been waiting for medical care,” Dr Amit signed off.

If you would like to join the team or assist in any way, contact Dr Anjana Thadani on 9820304802
</text>