<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68122193/paekakariki-woman-eileen-witham-helps-orphanage-in-wake-of-nepal-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Paekakariki woman Eileen Witham helps orphanage in wake of Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Paekakariki woman Eileen Witham helps orphanage in wake of Nepal earthquake

Eileen Witham Neighbourhood children play on swings on the lawn of the Nepal Orphans Home in Dhapasi after its walls crumbled from the country's earthquake. In the background are people camping on their lawn.

People were stepping over live wires in the streets, but at least the power was surging on - and that meant the children could have water.

Paekakariki woman Eileen Witham has spoken of life in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake as she helps orphans and volunteers in a Kathmandu village.

Witham, director of Volunteer Nepal in Dhapasi since October, said people in her group and the nearby Nepal Orphans Home were safe after the quake - but spending most of their time on the front lawn of the orphanage founder's house.

Emma McDonald Volunteer Nepal director Eileen Witham, from Paekakariki, in Nepal in January.

Her sister Marian Witham was based in Edinburgh but relayed messages and pictures to New Zealand when Eileen was able to charge her cell phone.

Witham was in Volunteer House on Saturday - she had just changed out of the dress she wore to Anzac Day commemorations at the Australian embassy, and was reading on her bed when the quake hit, causing her to run to the roof of the building.

"I stood on the roof, clinging to a railing and watching dust clouds in the distance. I could see an older Nepali couple run to the temple below me. I wanted them to get out from under the power lines. They probably thought I was an idiot for staying on the roof."

Witham was strangely aware that her singlet top probably didn't meet their standards of modesty.

"You have time to think of odd things when the shaking lasts more than a minute."

Then she grabbed her shoes and her passport and headed to orphanage founder Michael Hess' house.

Since the quake the biggest concern for Volunteer House and the orphans home was uncertainty over how long their food and water would last.

On Tuesday in Dhapasi, power started to come back on, Witham said.

"So electricity has just started intermittently, a cheer went up in volunteer house as we scrambled to turn on the water pump. A few seconds later we heard the cheering echoed in the street outside as everyone realised.

"While this means there will be live wires around that people are now used to stepping over, it means that much needed water will be more accessible."



She said they had power for about an hour - so they could pump water into tanks in all the children's homes, and staff were "feeling a bit more relaxed now".

Saturday was Nepal's one-day weekend and when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, Witham's staff and volunteers faced trauma during the shake, and as they journeyed back to their base.

Several staff and volunteers were visiting a conference in a crowded ballroom and watched in horror as a man fell out the window and broke his back.

The death toll by Wednesday was more than 4200.

But Witham said in the aftermath there were moments of simple kindness.

"In the middle of all this, I have seen some lovely things. I popped down to Anita's to talk to Papa before and watched as several girls held flashlights for Samjana to give Gita her injection. No fuss, just looking after each other."

Papa was the orphanage's name for Hess; Anita managed one of the orphanage houses, and Samjana and Gita were sisters who lived there.

Now the staff and volunteers have settled into a routine of rationed water and preserving cooking gas with a single hot drink a day.

Volunteer Nepal was set up by the founders of Nepal Orphans Home and while they operate closely, the volunteer group sends people on placements throughout Nepal.

In her time in Nepal, which included previous visits, Witham's work has included helping set up a new medical clinic in the South of Nepal, and teaching child nuns in a monastery in the mountains near the Tibet border.

Witham has worked with a group that supports women rescued from the sex trade, training them to support themselves by sewing.

The last Marian Witham heard, her sister Eileen Witham was trying to get some sleep after seeing five of her volunteers off for the night shift at the local hospital.

The people at Volunteer House and the orphanage decided to sleep in their buildings, and avoided the worst of the cold and rain, but being inside was still a scary call, Marian Witham said.

Nepal Orphans Home, with four homes and 150 children, has set up an earthquake relief fund so they have resources to help their networks where needed, and people can donate at http://www.nepalorphanshome.org/donate, specifying the earthquake relief fund in their notes.

A SENSE OF NEPAL

"Nepal is a beautiful country with beautiful, lovely people. Things are so tough with extreme poverty and such instability politically, but the people are the friendliest you'll ever meet. Walking through Dhapasi all you have to do is grin at a baby, and its parents will laugh and proudly smoosh it's little hands into the 'Namaste' gesture in greeting. When local children get brave enough to run up and try out their English, their mothers who don't even know what we're talking about will beam with pride. Nepal is very diverse country culturally, and has dozens of ethnic groups and languages, and many religions. One man once joked to me that the only reason they only get one day off work and school each week is because of all the festivals, they would never get anything done otherwise."

- Marian Witham, who volunteered in Nepal alongside her sister Eileen Witham.

- Stuff
</text>