<url>
http://www.cairnspost.com.au/news/opinion/open-hearts-and-wallets-to-nepal/story-fnjpuwl3-1227326372734
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Open hearts and wallets to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
AS MOST of us were still commemorating Anzac Day, a 75-mile-long piece of the earth’s crust moved three metres to the south in Nepal.

The 7.8-magnitude earthquake that followed flattened buildings in the country’s capital, Kathmandu, and surrounding villages. The aftershocks were felt in neighbouring countries.

The death toll stands at more than 4000 people, and it’s rising every hour.

Hundreds of Australians were initially listed as missing; by yesterday morning 1150 of them had been contacted. An Australian woman died on Mount Everest, in an avalanche during one of the many aftershocks.

TV footage coming out of Kathmandu shows rescuers hopelessly picking away at piles of rubble, in mostly vain attempts to find survivors. Buildings, many with no solid foundations, crumbled during the quake. Hospitals can’t cope with the number of injured.

A Cairns man has been especially affected by the tragedy.

Som Tamang, from Edge Hill, founded the Friends of Himalayan Children charity eight years ago in order to build schools and houses in the village of Batase.

MORE OPINION...

BEING SAVVY PART OF JOB

LEST WE FORGET GRIEVING

SCREEN COMMENTS TO GET JOBS

He was flying to Nepal yesterday to see the extent of the damage, in the knowledge that one of his brothers died in the earthquake.

On Monday, a post on the charity’s website read: “Ten confirmed dead in Batase Village. Many injured. One of the orphans staying at the FHC hostel was seriously injured.

“The earthquake struck when everyone was indoors having their lunch. The school and hostel that FHC have worked so hard on have been destroyed, as have almost all homes in the village.

“Amber Tamang, who helped run the school for FHC, was caught in a landslide after the earthquake. He did not survive, and will be missed by all who knew and worked with him.”

The Australian government has contributed $5 million to the relief effort; the opposition says that’s nowhere near enough.

Cairns musicians are planning a concert in aid of Friends of Himalayan Children.

There’s been no shortage of people willing to donate their time and expertise; equipment has already been made available, and one of Cairns’ leading venues has offered to host the event.

I’ve written before about the generosity and camaraderie that exists within the Cairns music community.

This is just one more example.

At least one Cairns school is also holding collections.

Last week I wrote about how lucky we are to live in Australia. The tragedy of the Nepal earthquake makes that even clearer.

After watching the dreadful reports coming out of Kathmandu yesterday, it made me appreciate even more that I have hot water coming out of the shower and food in the fridge.

It made me appreciate that there’s a hospital nearby with available beds, and that the worst we have to deal with is the occasional cyclone.

Finally, as you read this, it’s more than likely that Bali Nine duo Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran will have been executed by firing squad.

I wrote some weeks ago about my hopes they would be spared, it now appears nothing could have saved them from such a barbaric end.

We live in a world where we’re surrounded by death and tragedy almost beyond comprehension.

Again, give thanks that we live where we live, in safety, and in a land largely untouched by almost inconceivable disasters.

While charity certainly begins at home; let’s move some of it abroad for a little while.

Donations to the Friends of Himalayan Children can be made at: www.f-hc.org; you can also donate at The Cairns Post reception on Abbott St.

christopherellis.net
</text>