<url>
http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-eight-million-people-affected-un-says/story-fni6um3i-1227325745732?nk=d9dd4d3acf4e60704ce6da95357a3a29
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Eight million people affected, UN says
</headline>

<text>
THREE Perth teenagers who were trekking in Nepal when the deadly 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck have contacted their worried families.

Fremantle-based Rin Hutcheson and Jalada Wilson, both 18, and Raoul Poncin, 19, had not been heard from since last Tuesday when they were hiking in Lampang National Park.

media_camera Safe ... Fremantle mates Jalada Wilson, 18, Raoul Poncin, 19 and 18-year-old Rin Hutcheson at Perth Airport before they flew to Nepal. Picture: Facebook

Raoul’s father Freddy Poncin posted on Facebook overnight that all three were safe but could not get out of the Langtang area. “They are in a place called Syabrubesi and all roads are blocked,” he said.

“Soon they will be picked up! A very happy dad here!!!”

It is believed only one West Australian in Nepal has not made contact with family; Victoria Park university student Mitchell James Noga, 21, who is registered as missing on a Red Cross website.

Before the quake struck, he was in Pokhara, which was not as devastated as the capital Kathmandu.

He last made contact with his family 10 days ago.

media_camera Raoul Poncin, 19. Picture: Facebook media_camera Jalada Wilson, 19. Picture: Facebook

Meanwhile, the bodies of Nepalese earthquake victims are being cremated and thrown in a river as local officials struggle to deal with the humanitarian crisis which has affected more than eight million people.

World Vision CEO Tim Costello, who is in Kathmandu, said the aftermath of Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude quake was devastating.

“What shocks you is seeing smoke and asking what that is — well, it’s burning the corpses and putting the ashes in the river here,” he said.

Mr Costello said the scale of the disaster had overwhelmed the Nepalese government, which has asked the rest of the world to step in and help.

“When you ask people if the government’s done enough, they basically say ‘the government’s invisible’,” he said.

“(They say) we paid for our own tarpaulin and food and water and we really need international agencies and the rest of the world to help.” A giant tent city has been set up in Kathmandu but clean water and toilets are in short supply.

media_camera Devastation ... World Vision Australia CEO Tim Costello arrives at Kathmandu International airport on the aftermath of Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake. Picture: Nathan Edwards

“People who are still in the tent cities are mainly motivated by fear,” Mr Costello said.

“There’s just wild rumours, ever-present rumours that another, bigger earthquake is coming.”

United Nations officials estimate that more than a quarter of the country’s population have been affected by the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday, and has since, killed more than 5050 people and left many more destitute or displaced. Mr Costello said the regional areas were faring even worse, as no one has been able to access them.

“Our staff in the regions are getting really desperate, they say ‘nothing is getting out here’ because of landslides and bad weather, it’s been pouring rain (on Tuesday) afternoon,” Mr Costello said.

He said it was a race to ensure sanitation was restored or an outbreak of disease could kill more people than the earthquake. World Vision is flying in tents, water and hygiene packs, as well as sanitation, child protection and disaster relief experts.

UN resident co-ordinator in Kathmandu, Jamie McGoldrick, said two million people who need help are in the 11 worst-hit districts.

media_camera A country devastated ... Volunteers and quake emergency team members clear debris from one of the UNESCO World Heritage site temples in Basantapur Durbar Square, following the devastating impact of a 7.8-magnitude earthquake. Picture: Omar Havana/Getty Images

About 1.4 million people need food assistance, but the challenge is reaching them. Mr McGoldrick said the challenge of supplying to small villages at high altitudes and in rough terrain “is quite significant.”

He added that 72 hours after the quake, “people are still in a very much hardship mode.”

The United Nations will release $US15 million ($19.09 million) from its emergency fund to help kickstart relief operations.

media_camera Widespread grief ... A child injured in a devastating earthquake receives treatment at a hospital in Kathmandu Pictire: AFP Photo/Prakash Mathema

“This will go to support to UN agencies to meet emergency needs that include ... food, water, medication, but also logistical support,” said Jens Laerke, spokesman for the UN humanitarian agency OCHA.

A UN flash fundraising appeal to donors will also be launched in coming days, he told reporters in Geneva.

“This is a race against time. It is also a race against a moving target, in the sense that we also do not have a full assessment of the needs and the requirements in the rural areas outside of Kathmandu,” he said.

media_camera Devastation ... people walk among earthquake debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/Nicolas Asfouri

media_camera Shocking ... damaged houses are seen from an Indian Army helicopter following an earthquake in the Nepalese area of Gorkha. Picture: AFP/Sajjad Hussain

media_camera Homeless ... displaced Nepalese sleep in makeshift tents in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha

After flying by helicopter over Dhulikhel town, on the north side of the Kathmandu valley, Mr McGoldrick estimated that about 40 per cent of the houses were damaged, but the destruction was erratic.

“Some areas on one ridge are completely untouched, on the other side it’s completely flattened,” he said.

Incredible amateur drone footage has emerged showing the extent of the devastation in Nepal’s capital, Kathmandu.

Kishor Rana’s video contains aerial shots of collapsed buildings, shattered temples and roads riven with enormous cracks and gouges.

Meanwhile, the Mt Everest base camp has grown deeply quiet over the past couple days, as more and more climbers leave in the wake of the deadly avalanche that pulverised part of the mountaineering village.

Base camp is “very silent,” Azim Afif, the leader of a team from University of Technology Malaysia, said during a brief interview on the messenger service WhatsApp.

His team, he said, had decided not to attempt to reach the summit. They were planning to descend from base camp on Wednesday.

The main trail through the Khumbu Icefall, the expanse of immense chunks of ice that must be traversed during summit attempts, was wiped out by the avalanche.

The “Icefall Doctors” — the Sherpas who create the trail of ropes and ladders — had already left base camp, he said.

As a result “I’m not sure if anyone is still trying” to make summit attempts.

media_camera Hard hit ... mountain guides and climbers stand beside camping and climbing gear gathered at Everest Base Camp, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Nima Namgyal Sherpa

At Dubai International Airport, workers loaded crates packed with relief aid into a Boeing 747 destined for Nepal, just over a four-hour flight away.

The Gulf commercial hub is home to a sprawling logistic and warehouse facility known as International Humanitarian City that is used by United Nations agencies and NGOs to deploy humanitarian aid.

media_camera Help ... relief aid destined for Nepal, as a part of the UAE's humanitarian aid to earthquake victims, is loaded onto a Boeing 747 at Dubai International Airport. Picture: AP Photo/Kamran Jebreili

The chief executive of IHC, Shaima al-Zarooni, said relief workers have faced difficulties in delivering needed aid such as temporary shelters, satellite communications gear and medical equipment because of closures and congestion at the airport in Kathmandu.

The United Arab Emirates, which includes Dubai, announced on Sunday it was deploying search-and-rescue team to Nepal to help with recovery and relief efforts.

Australians caught up in the earthquake will be evacuated by defence planes if required.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop yesterday confirmed there were now 1150 Australians accounted for in the country.

She said if those stranded were unable to get a commercial flight out of the country, defence planes would help them get out.

media_camera Search mission ... a French fireman with a rescue dog looks for earthquake survivors among debris in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/Nicolas Asfouri

“Australia will assist any Australian to depart Nepal if they are unable to get a commercial airline,” Ms Bishop told ABC radio.

“Our Australian Defence Force aircraft are taking supplies in so they can take commercial flights out to Bangkok and Australians should be able to get commercial flights out from there.”

Among the thousands of tragedies, there was one piece of good news with the revelation that actor Hugh Sheridan’s brother Zachary was alive and well.

media_camera Destitute ... a mother with her baby and other children stand next to a makeshift tent where they sleep, following an earthquake in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/Nicolas Asfouri

##

Originally published as Nepal quake: Aussie teens safe
</text>