<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/b100m-vowed-quake-aid
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
B100m vowed for quake aid
</headline>

<text>
Republished with permission. © Post Publishing Plc. www.bangkokpost.com

Fatality toll from Nepal disaster passes 5,000

The government has allocated 100 million baht to help victims in earthquake-stricken Nepal, while public donations via the government continue to pour in, amounting to more than 125 million baht as of Tuesday.

The official death toll in Nepal from the powerful earthquake has passed 5,000 people, according to Nepal's National Emergency Operation Centre.

Deputy government spokesman Sansern Kaewkamnerd revealed Tuesday that the cabinet approved 100 million baht to be sent for Nepal relief.

The money will be drawn from the central budget set aside for emergency purposes, Maj Gen Sansern said.

Maj Gen Sansern said the Thai embassy in Nepal is appealing for more humanitarian aid for disaster relief.

Blankets, tents, food and medical supplies, first-aid kits and drinking water are urgently needed to help victims cope with the earthquake's aftermath.

Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha said that 40 Thais have taken shelter at the Thai embassy in Kathmandu and more were expected to go there.

He said all Thai students and tourists there were safe.

The Thai military would set up a mobile hospital in Nepal and Thai forensic officials would be there to assist in victim identification, Gen Prayut said.

He said the government has instructed all agencies to receive donations through various channels, adding that the donations have amounted to about 127 million baht so far.

Donations can be made through TV stations, local administrative organisations and Damrongtham public complaint centres.

Meanwhile, a total of 67 Thai military personnel, including doctors, flew to Nepal on a C-130 military transport aircraft Monday morning.

They also took essential goods and disaster relief equipment to help earthquake victims there.

The aeroplane brought back 58 Thais wanting to return to Thailand.

Deputy Defence Minister and army chief Udomdej Sitabutr said the army has been assigned to coordinate the collection of relief supplies to help victims.

The 1st Infantry Regiment and the 11th Infantry Regiment are the main units responsible for receiving and pooling supplies.

The army also sent military doctors on the Tuesday flight, as well as personnel with equipment to produce 6,000 litres of drinking water per day in Nepal.

The army will also send search and rescue teams, sniffer dogs and military engineers to help repair infrastructure damaged by the earthquake there, Gen Udomdej said.

Thai Airways International (THAI) flight TG3199 successfully landed at Kathmandu's airport after THAI flight TG319 was forced to return to Bangkok early yesterday morning after being unable to land at...

Flight TG3199 carrying rescue personnel and journalists departed Suvarnabhumi airport at 9.15am and landed in Nepal at 11.44am Tuesday.

Flight TG319 flight departed Suvarnabhumi airport at 10.15am on Monday with 295 people on board.

They included rescuers from the United Nations and other international organisations, along with Thai journalists.

However, the plane could not land at Kathmandu, where air traffic controllers were overwhelmed by incoming flights.

The Thai Airways aircraft, a commercial flight, had to make way for aircraft carrying only rescuers and disaster relief supplies.

Commercial flights were kept waiting. The flight eventually returned to Suvarnabhumi airport about 2am Tuesday.

Meanwhile, the Science and Technology Ministry will submit satellite images of Kathmandu taken before and after the powerful earthquake to the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and...

The minister Pichet Durongkaveroj said the two sets of images were taken by Thaichote satellite, aka Theos.

Mr Pichet said the satellite captured images of Kathmandu on April 8 and on Monday, two days after the earthquake struck the Nepalese capital.

The images taken on Monday showed extensive damage in Kathmandu Durbar Square, a World Heritage site, and wide swathes of the capital devastated by the quake.

Mr Pichet said the submission of the images to the international body is to be made in line with the UN framework on regional disaster management.

Anond Snidwongs, director of Geo-Informatics and Space Technology Development Agency (Gistda), said the satellite images are very useful for rehabilitation work.

Mr Anond said other international bodies can obtain the images taken by the Thaichote satellite from Unescap so that they can use them in their rehabilitation efforts.
</text>