<url>
http://www.news-leader.com/story/news/local/ozarks/2015/04/29/baptist-bible-college-brothers-fear-nepal-relatives/26582711/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Baptist Bible College brothers fear for Nepal relatives
</headline>

<text>
Buy Photo Brothers Sahaj Ghimire, 22, and Kshitiz Ghimire, 24, are from Kathmandu, Nepal and were worried about their family and friends after the recent earthquake. “It’s really hard for us to be here and be so helpless,” Kshitiz said. (Photo: Valerie Mosley/News-Leader)Buy Photo

A desperate phone call to their parents in Kathmandu, Nepal, couldn't have been more frightening for two Bible Baptist College students in Springfield.

Sahaj Ghimire, 22, remembers talking to his mother by phone half a world away just hours after the horrific 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit Nepal.

"I was talking to my mom when she screams 'It's back!' and the phone hangs up," Sahaj recalled Wednesday morning. "I didn't reach them for another eight hours. It was one of the most scary times in my life."

The earthquake has killed more than 5,000 people with many still missing in villages that have not yet been reached.

Sahaj's brother, Kshitiz, 24, said that when they finally got through to their parents, "they were in shock."

"I've never heard mom so scared," he said. "We have a grandma in her 70s and a great grandma in her 90s and they were scared to the core. Aftershocks were hitting every five minutes, and the biggest one was a 6.7."

"That aftershock was equal to what Haiti got," Sahaj added. "It's very difficult. Just today we learned that a kid we went to school with in Kathmandu didn't make it. It's very tough."

(Photo: Submitted photo)

The bothers' parents survived the quakes, but the walls in their home were severely cracked, though the roof did not collapse. Jeevan Ghimire is pastor of Kathmandu Bible Baptist Church. He and his wife Usha Ghimire operate an orphanage that currently houses 12 children. All survived the earthquakes.

The brothers say their parents and the children they care for are living in the street beneath a large plastic tent. Because they had stockpiled food for the orphanage, they have enough to eat.

But both brothers said they fear lack of functioning sewer systems and clean water — as well as hundreds of decomposing bodies yet to be recovered — could lead to a massive outbreak of disease that potentially could kill more than the earthquakes.

"Obviously they are worried because they don't know when it's going to come again," Kshitiz said. "It's really hard for us to be here and be so helpless."

Sahaj and Kshitiz are seniors scheduled to graduate from Baptist Bible College in May, and their parents had planned to fly to Kansas City and travel to Springfield to see their sons graduate. The earthquake eliminated that possibility.

For now, the brothers are focused on raising funds and gathering supplies to send back to their parents.

(Photo: Submitted photo)

Kshitiz hopes to fly back to Kathmandu soon to help his parents recover from their disaster and distribute supplies to the needy.

He encouraged anyone who wants to help to donate funds to Bible Baptist Fellowship International, care of Nepal recovery, or to High Street Baptist Church, also for Nepal recovery.

Donations so far "give me motivation to go and take the hope of Christ back there," Kshitiz said.

Prayer gathering

Baptist Bible College Chapel will have a prayer gathering at 7 p.m. Thursday to remember those killed in the earthquake disaster and to pray for survivors. Baptist Bible College is at 628 East Kearney St.

One way to help Nepal quake survivors is to donate through High Street Baptist Church at www.highstreet.org/give.

Read or Share this story: http://sgfnow.co/1GG17JM
</text>