<url>
http://www.perthnow.com.au/news/western-australia/wa-earthquake-survivors-pledge-to-raise-money-for-the-nepalese/story-fnhocxo3-1227325386210?nk=378b2d0fb874532e1238f4488b1e0fdc
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
WA earthquake survivors pledge to raise money for the Nepalese
</headline>

<text>
AS travellers return from Nepal, tales of survival have begun to emerge with some committed to raising money for the quake-ravaged country.

PerthNow spoke to the survivors and their families who are campaigning to raise funds for the relief effort.

Yvonne Renshaw

It had been an exciting few weeks in Nepal for Yvonne Renshaw.

She had trekked to the Everest Base Camp, spent some days relaxing in Kathmandu, and was using her last few days in the poor, South Asian country volunteering at an orphanage 40 minutes from the capital.

On April 25, Ms Renshaw decided to take one of the boys from the orphanage for a walk with the home’s dog.

The peaceful stroll then turned into one of distress and panic when a magnitude 7.9 earthquake hit.

“There was a rumble and a massive, earthly movement, it just completely up-ended you,” Ms Renshaw said.

“In a second I was ‘What’s that’ and the next minute I’d hit the floor at a million miles an hour with such a force.

“I can’t even remember it up-ending me, but it took the skin off the back of my hands I hit the ground that hard.

“The earth started to move like it was on a massive wobble board. I clung on to the little boy and yelled at him to stay down.”

As she lay on the floor, Ms Renshaw became frightened of the earth opening up and falling through the cracks.

“The hills just started to implode. You could actually see where there were little houses and that part of the hill just fell and in its place was dust,” she said.

When it settled down, Ms Renshaw had to run into the orphanage to get her passport and another tremor struck while she was inside.

“The building was literally swaying side-to-side and you’re thrown up against the walls,” she said.

Ms Renshaw said she left Nepal “with a massive sense of guilt for being so privileged you even had the luxury” and now wants to raise money for the orphanage she volunteered at.

While the orphanage stood, all of their belongings were destroyed, including their only luxury a sound system they played music on.

The orphans and villagers had no choice but to camp in the open with no shelter.

“The people, they are just unbelievable, they live the hardest life you have ever seen, they have absolutely nothing,” she said.

Ms Renshaw has set up a NAB account for donations to the NV Nepal Orphanage, BSB 086-006 ACC 245-513-971.

media_camera Members of the Chinese rescue team search in debris of collapsed houses after Saturday's earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Bernat Armangue

Aisha Puchert’s family

Aisha Puchert couldn’t make the trip to Nepal with her family for a friend’s wedding, she had a new baby and decided to stay in Perth.

But her parents, three sisters and newly-married friends were still in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck.

Not only was she worried for their safety because of the emergency, but her father Osman Iscel had just had a major surgery and two of her sisters are blind.

“My father had a major operation just over five weeks ago to remove his cancer-ridden bladder and it was very touch and go for a while,” Ms Puchert said.

“We were all so pleased when he was given the all clear and he couldn’t wait to get over to Nepal to attend a very close friend’s wedding.”

Ms Puchert said when her family landed in Perth on Monday afternoon, “they were pretty shook up.”

“Two of my sisters are blind so I can only imagine how terrifying it was for all of them,” she said.

“They obviously couldn’t see if their sister is okay, if their mum and dad are okay.”

Her father was in the hotel lobby and her mum and one sister were about to get into the lift when the earthquake hit and the other two sisters were leaving their room.

“While the earthquake was happening, as they were trying to get out of the hotel they were stampeded and dad’s not got a bad leg,” Ms Puchert said.

“As it was happening, they were just falling over trying to keep steady.

“The floors and tiles were popping up. You were being thrown around if you were trying to walk.

“It was a terrifying experience for them.”

She said the group had to spend a night in their hotel car park as massive aftershocks continued to shake the ground.

“It was constant, they just didn’t feel safe at all,” Ms Puchert said.

She said one of her sisters, Ozgur Ozturk told her since arriving back in Perth, the experience had “hit her bad.”

“She is feeling depressed and almost guilty that she has left. She feels helpless. She will definitely be organising some fundraising,” Ms Puchert said.

media_camera Dogs sleeping beside rubble in a street of Khokana some 10kms south of Kathmandu after the earthquake which devastated Kathmandu Valley. Picture: AFP Photo/Agnes Bun

Geoff and Sue Roberts

A Perth woman has described her terror when she and her barefoot husband ran from their violently swaying hotel after the Nepal earthquake struck.

Geoff Roberts and his wife Sue had just had their first shower in five days when the plumbing and shower screen began popping from the bathroom wall.

They had been looking forward to that shower, having accumulated a lot of mud during their trekking in the Annapurna region.

They were about to leave their Kathmandu hotel room and savour a coffee downstairs when the 7.8-magnitude quake hit.

“The shower screen and the plumbing was all popping off the wall, mirrors breaking, things falling off the table — everything was moving so much,” Ms Roberts told AAP on Tuesday after their return home.

As the building shook, cleaning trolleys in the hallway hurtled towards them, smashing into walls.

“That was rather frightening,” Ms Roberts said.

“We just ran. Geoff didn’t even have any shoes on.”

They ended up fleeing without any of their belongings — and the cafe was flattened.

When they managed to get downstairs, they were huddled by hotel staff into a safe area where they spent the next 24 hours riding out the aftershocks.

The staff also helped arrange emergency passports for the pair and put them in touch with the Australian embassy.

When they got to the airport, the aftershocks continued, triggering chaotic scenes.

Ms Roberts said a man kicked a window out in his desperate bid to get outside.

“Everyone just charged.

“We cheered when the plane took off.

“It’s good to be alive, put it that way.”

Ms Roberts was full of praise for the Nepalese, saying they scrambled selflessly to help tourists.

media_camera Buildings destroyed in Khokana after the earthquake. Picture: AFP Photo/Agnes Bun

Ronald Rouwenhorst

Perth man Ronald Rouwenhorst told AAP he was pinned inside his Kathmandu hotel bathtub when the earthquake struck and thought he was going to die.

“My wife ran in and we couldn’t stand — I was lying on my back in the bath, she was on the floor next to it,” Mr Rouwenhorst said.

“We just closed the door to the bathroom and really thought that was the end.”
</text>