<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/68126559/witt-students-sohel-wagle-and-gaurab-sharma-launch-appeal-for-shattered-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Witt students Sohel Wagle and Gaurab Sharma launch appeal for shattered Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Witt students Sohel Wagle and Gaurab Sharma launch appeal for shattered Nepal

Robert Charles/Fairfax NZ Nepalese nationals Sohel Wagle, left, and Gaurab Sharma are fundraising for their earthquake-torn country.

It has been an emotionally taxing couple of days for Nepalese expatriate, Gaurab Sharma.

The international Witt student was safe at work in New Plymouth when Saturday's deadly 7.8 earthquake shattered his homeland dand killed ore than 5000 people.

Confounded by the quake's destruction and feeling helpless being so far away, Sharma, 22, has put his hand up to help and is now searching for ways to raise money for people affected by the tragic Anzac Day event.

He said while at work as a barman on Saturday he received a text message from his brother in Nepal who reassured him his family was safe but it was a long couple of days before he managed to track down any of his friends.

"It was so worrying for me," he said.

He hailed social media for eventually reconnecting him with the pals he feared missing. Communication was touch-and-go in certain areas of the country.

His family had managed to employ emergency power but his friends were less fortunate.

"I was able to reach my mum really easily.

"It was the first thing on my mind."

Sharma, who moved to New Plymouth from Nepal six months ago, said his family were virtually unaffected by the quake damage but were still taking precautions to keep themselves safe.

"They were sleeping in the downstairs living room instead of the bedrooms which are on the upper-level."

Sharma said back home his dad had launched a fundraising campaign and had been gathering water and food supplies to distribute throughout his neighbourhood.

On a fundraising mission of his own, Sharma has banded together with fellow international Witt student, Sohel Wagle, also from Nepal, to fundraise for their quake-damaged motherland.

The pair said they would lend their efforts to the New Zealand Red Cross Nepal earthquake appeal while they brainstorm further fundraising ideas.

For the following four days they will be posted at Centre City collecting on behalf of the Red Cross.

Taranaki's Red Cross service centre co-ordinator Jess Burrows said the organisation is appealing for cash donations.

She said they are only accepting monetary aid as the cost of transporting a free donation from New Zealand is more than the total value of the donation itself.

"Donations to New Zealand Red Cross allows us, where possible, to buy the relief items required in the affected area."

Text Help to 4741 to make a $3 donation. Alternatively, both ANZ and ASB bank, and Kathmandu are collecting money for the cause.

&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;

In Nepal, it has emerged that the mountaineering sons of the world's best-known climbers Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay have been sheltering in the same Nepali village near Mt Everest after surviving Saturday's quake.

By coincidence, Peter Hillary, 60, and Jamling Tenzing Norgay, 50, were leading separate trekking groups to the mountain's base camp when the 7.8-magnitude quake struck. Both were unhurt, but the quake unleashed a massive avalanche that devastated base camp and killed at least 18 people.

The pair have long been friends, and joined an anniversary expedition to Everest in 2003 to mark 50 years since Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first to stand on the 8848m summit.

Hillary's wife, Yvonne Oomen , said on Wednesday that he had been leading a group of 11 fellow former King's College classmates on a "trip of a lifetime".

They had been at Gorakshep, only a few hours from base camp when the quake struck, but backtracked and walked down the Khumbu Valley to Tengboche, the home of a famous monastery.

His party was unharmed in the quake, though one member, Auckland businessman Greg Kay, 61, died suddenly in his sleep overnight on Saturday at their lodge at Tengboche, from a suspected heart attack.

- Taranaki Daily News
</text>