<url>
http://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/states/relief-pours-in-from-gujarat-for-quakehit-nepal/article7154674.ece
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Relief pours in from Gujarat for quake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Gujarat ministers and MLAs of the ruling party will donate a total of Rs 69.40 lakh as contribution to Prime Minister's relief fund towards the assistance for earthquake victims in Nepal, an official statement said here.

The spokesperson minister of Government of Gujarat, Nitin Patel informed that the cabinet ministers, the speaker and deputy speaker of the Assembly will contribute Rs 65,000 each from their monthly salary, while all MLAs of the ruling party will contribute Rs 55,000 each towards the assistance for Nepal earthquake victims.

The state government has also sent 25,000 food packets through the National Disaster Management Authority of the Central government.

Similarly, at a separate briefing on Wednesday, the Gujarat wing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)'s 16,000 workers from the state to raise funds for quake-affected victims in Nepal and contribute for relief and rehabilitation works.

Pradeep Jain, media coordinator, RSS-Gujarat, said, "The fund collection drive will be held on May 1 across the state. Around 16,000 workers will raise funds at major public places across the state."

The RSS has also sent a team of 50 doctors along with 10,000 rugs, 10,000 tent covers and dry snacks for relief.

"As of now we are coordinating with Nepal-based Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh (HSS), which is backed by RSS, for relief and rescue work.

Meanwhile, Jain also mentioned that the central leadership of RSS would also work to chalk out a strategy for the rehabilitation work in Nepal.

Further, the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) informed that dairies including Mother Dairy and Amul have already supplied milk and baby food to the affected regions in Nepal.

"On the direction of Secretary, Animal Husbandry, Government of India, Mother Dairy provided 5 tonnes of skimmed milk powder while Amul provided 5 tonnes of baby food and 14 tonnes of UHT milk within four hours on Sunday for the quake affected people in Kathmandu," informed T Nandakumar, Chairman, NDDB via a facebook post.

"In addition, an officer from Mother Dairy has been deputed to Kathmandu for coordination and will work closely with the Indian Embassy. Another officer has been earmarked in Delhi to coordinate with Ministry, Mother Dairy and Milk cooperatives,” he said.

The Indian Immunologicals Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of NDDB has donated 50,000 dosages of TT Vaccine for the quake affected Nepal. "This is being delivered to the ministry of Health, Government of India,” Nanda Kumar said.

(This article was published on April 29, 2015)

Related
</text>