<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3060652/Traumatised-Everest-climber-hits-looters-stole-cash-decimated-tents-team-stranded-mountain-quake-avalanche.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Everest climber returns to base camp to find many possessions scattered in post quake avalanche may have been stolen
</headline>

<text>
Mountaineers stranded on Mount Everest have returned to base camp to find their damaged rucksacks and tents looted and money stolen.

The appalling thefts were uncovered after climbers escaped death on the mountain when an avalanche - triggered by the devastating earthquake - killed 18 Sherpas and mountaineers.

Experienced climber Tim Mosedale from Cumbria - who has conquered Everest four times in the past - said his group had returned to base camp to find their belongings strewn across the mountainside - and that calculating thieves had stolen anything of value.

Mr Mosedale later discovered that he had lost three of his support crew in the avalanche.

Scroll down for video

Tim Mosedale, pictured on Everest in 2011, was philosophical about the thefts saying he sees it as an 'inevitable occurence'. He was leading a corporate expedition to the summit of Everest when disaster struck

Mountaineer TIm Mosedale - pictured on the top of Everest in 2011 - revealed today how money was stolen from rucksacks and wallets left at base camp at Everest while climbers were stranded

Mr Mosedale shared a picture on Twitter of the wreckage at Everest base camp, where flowers have been left in a makeshift vase. 18 people died on Everest when the avalanche struck, sparked by a huge earthquake

He wrote on Facebook: 'Unfortunately, after the dust had settled, there was a bit of opportunistic scavenging and LOTS of US$s [sic] have gone missing from wallets, kitbags, envelopes and pouches that were strewn across the Khumbu glacier.

'I don't hold any angst against the folk that did this as I see it as an inevitable occurrence.

'It's not like the looting and stealing that occurs elsewhere around the world after every natural disaster - it's just opportunistic pilfering. Sad, but inevitable.'

Mr Mosedale, from Keswick, was leading a corporate expedition up the world's highest peak when the disaster struck..

Base camp at Everest was devastated by the avalanche, sparked by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal

Mr Mosedale was at Camp One, at 11,000ft, when the avalanche struck - devastating the base camp below

Helicopters were scrambled to help the trapped mountaineers descend the peak following the avalanche, which killed 18 people. On the right, an injured climber is helped to the rescue helicopter to be evacuated

He was among a number of Britons stranded at Camp One of the mountain during the avalanche on Saturday, while the base camp underneath them was devastated by the snow.

Mr Mosedale explained he is now embarking on a 'leisurely' four day trek down the mountain - knowing that there are 'unimaginable issues' in Nepal's capital of Kathmandu.

He wrote: 'My take is that our 'isolated problem' at C1 was small fry compared to what EBC [Everest base camp] were having to deal with.

A rescue helicopter at the base camp. Mr Mosedale said the group he is leading now plan to take a 'leisurely' trek down the mountain - knowing the terrible situation that they will meet in the Nepal city of Kathmandu

Mr Mosedale believes he was in a safer place higher up the mountain than if they had stayed in the base camp

'We were in actual fact in a safer place on the way to C1 (despite getting well and truly dusted) than if we had been down at EBC.

'If we'd been down there we would all have been in the mess tent or around our camp .... which was completely obliterated with the dreadful loss of three of our staff.

'In turn the issues at EBC that everyone was dealing with are nothing compared to what was going on in KTM [Kathmandu}.

'But, as ever, people have to cope with their own bit of hell and it's not really fair to tell them that it could be worse.'
</text>