<url>
http://gulfnews.com/news/asia/nepal/relief-as-dubai-group-returns-unhurt-from-nepal-1.1500799
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Relief as Dubai group returns unhurt from Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Friends and well-wishers greet the Nepali earthquake survivors upon their arrival at Terminal 2 of Dubai Airpo

Friends and well-wishers greet the Nepali earthquake survivors upon their arrival at Terminal 2 of Dubai Airpo Image Credit: Arshad Ali/Gulf News

Dubai: Six Dubai friends returned home to anxious families safely from quake-hit Nepal on Wednesday.

They were met with cheers, garlands and long embraces by parents and loved ones as they walked out of Arrivals at Terminal 2 of Dubai International Airport.

A small crowd of sorts had gathered to receive them a little before 3am. Well-wishers took pictures, selfies and videos on mobile phones of the emotional reunion.

The friends, all Indian expats in their 20s, lost contact in Nepal on Saturday when the deadly quake struck and families only heard from them on Tuesday.

Phone and internet connectivity is still down or sporadic in huge swathes of the mountainous country.

The violent 7.8-magnitue quake killed more than 5,000 people, crumbled homes, and triggered fatal avalanches and landslides.

The friends had landed in Nepal on Friday for an adventure holiday at The Last Resort 100km from the capital Kathmandu.

The group somehow managed to reach a village several miles from the resort and call home, apparently on phones of locals.

They were not reported to be hurt but were hungry and tired on the long journey home.

The friends travelled by road from the village to Kathmandu on Tuesday so they could catch a flight back at night from the capital. After a delay of a few hours, the group landed in Dubai in the wee hours of Wednesday.

Thanzeem Rawther, a sister of Thanweer Rawther, one of the six friends, said: “Rush of happiness to see them back. Had to really hug him and see if he is really back, and that our nightmare is finally over.”

She added: “The things my brother told us after meeting us and on the way home were nothing short of as if out of a horror movie. Destruction, deaths, earthquake, extreme weather, hunger, thirst. So scary. Just grateful to God that he has come unscathed to us and has lived to tell the tale.”

In the past few days, another holiday group of more than a dozen residents, including two Emirati women, also returned home after what they described as narrow escapes in Nepal’s quake.

Three days of mourning have been declared in Nepal for the victims. More bodies are expected to be found as the rubble is cleared; scores of people are still missing. Many survivors in the capital spent another cold night in tent cities that sprung up after the quake because they are homeless or scared to return to their houses.

The massive quake was followed by strong aftershocks, again terrifying the population.

According to UN estimates, some 8,000,000 people have been affected by the quake in Nepal. Also, over 10,000 people were injured.

Local officials are struggling to meet the overwhelming demand for rescue and relief. Several countries have sent aid, experts and equipment to help Nepal cope with the disaster, its biggest in over eight decades.
</text>