<url>
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-amid-all-the-sadness-and-death-the-talk-is-of-hope-and-rebirth-10214113.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Amid all the sadness and death, the talk is of hope and rebirth
</headline>

<text>
At night, from a descending flight, Kathmandu looks as if it has been enveloped by a dark shroud, the result of power cuts that have followed last weekend’s devastating earthquakes. But in one corner of the city, through the blackness, there are lines of bright, shining lights.

The flames reveal the way to the only service now open around the clock in Nepal: the dead from the disaster have been given their funerals, for five days running, on the burning ghats of the Bagmati river.

Bereaved relations, some needing support from friends and family as they weep – some almost trancelike in their shock – wait their turn in the queue to say goodbye to those they have lost.

The dead are brought here so their ashes can be floated on waters which flow into the Ganges, the sacred river of Hinduism. Just how many bodies have become part of this chain of cremation has become a matter of dispute and recriminations. The figure is 600 in Kathmandu, say officials, but many local people dismiss that number as abjectly low, claiming that at least 2,000 have been burned by the Bagmati. The issue has become enmeshed in charges that the authorities are trying to play down the death toll in an attempt to hide their own failure to save lives.

Powerful earthquake hits Nepal







44 show all Powerful earthquake hits Nepal





















































































1/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Victims of the earthquake are cremated at Pashupatinah Temple in Kathmandu Getty Images

2/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman prays at a temple in Kathmandu damaged by the earthquake AP

3/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police push back residents who began protesting after waiting for hours in line to board buses back to towns and villages Getty

4/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese policeman guards a collapsed building in Kathmandu. The number of people killed in the earthquake has passed 5,000 according to official figures EPA

5/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A woman stands in silence in front of the historic Bal Krishna Thapa Chhetry temple in Kathmandu, which was been damaged by the earthquake EPA

6/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers from Japan in the centre of Kathmandu; they are facing a race against time to find survivors Getty

7/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Pallets of Australian aid (blankets, tarpaulins, hygiene kits and water purification tablets) are loaded onto a No. 36 Squadron C-17A Globemaster aircraft in preparation for delivery to Nepal Getty Images

8/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rishi Khanal is rescued after being trapped in a collapsed building in Nepal’s capital following Saturday’s earthquake Reuters

9/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Villagers shelter from rain in the Gorkha district, north-west of Kathmandu; 10 days of rain are forecast, with tens of thousands of people sleeping outdoors AFP/Getty

10/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal Reuters

11/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search through the rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hundreds of thousands of Nepalis spent another night in the open after a massive quake which killed more than 4,000 AFP/Getty

12/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A priest prepares a fire for the cremation of an earthquake victim at Pashupati cremation center in Kathmandu, Nepal. The official death toll from the magnitude 7.8 earthquake has risen to 5,057 people EPA

13/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha AFP/Getty

14/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A satellite image showing a part of the city's historic center, left, before the 25 April 2015 earthquake and the after effects, right EPA

15/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman and her daughter receive medical treatment after arriving at Dhading hospital, in the aftermath of the earthquake, in Dhading Besi

16/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman mourns in front of her destroyed home in the Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

17/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Earthquake victims collect belongings and salvage food items from a destroyed building after a major earthquake, Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

20/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured boy sleeps on the ground outside the overcrowded Dhading hospital in Dhading Besi

21/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Members of a rescue team from China huddle while planning their operation at the site of earthquake in Kathmandu

22/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Local people gather at the top of large mound where once stood a temple to view the scene of devastation in Kathmandu

23/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People pray before cremating the body of a victim of the earthquake, along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal

24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

27/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian resident Santosh (2L) is met by relatives after being evacuated following an earthquake in Nepal at the railway station in Amritsar

28/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A helicopter prepares to rescue people from camp 1 and 2 at Everest Base Camp, Nepal

29/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People carry a woman from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

30/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a living man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal EPA

31/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A man struggles to free himself from under the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

32/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

33/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Dust can be seen over the city during an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

34/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A building stands damaged after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015 AP

35/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese people walk past a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

36/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured man is assisted after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

37/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

38/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese health workers carry injured people into an open area following an 7.9 earthquake, at Lalitpur on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

39/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian bystanders look at a collapsed house following an earthquake, in Siliguri on April 25, 2015 AFP/Getty Images

40/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers help with rescue work at the site of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

41/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

42/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building, after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

43/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu GETTY

44/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Health workers take care of injured people outside the Manmohan Memorial Community Hospital after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

The priests and their helpers at Pashupatinath Temple need temporal knowledge as well as understanding of Hindu scriptures. Precise calculations are needed to keep the line going under such a pressure of numbers. The priests have worked out that it takes four hours to reduce a man’s body to ashes, three for a woman, while the time for a child varies according to age.

The procession will continue. The death toll across the country has now passed 5,200 and will continue to rise as more bodies are dug out, and more of those injured lose the battle against their injuries. The number of unclaimed corpses is also rising: these bodies are kept for 48 hours before being fingerprinted and burned. “Day and night, night and day, that’s how we have been working,” said Raghunath Lal, at the Temple complex, laying out the bundles of cut straw that will be used for the fire. “It should not be like this – there should not be so many following each other so soon.”

For the families of the dead, each parting is tender and special. Laxmi was dressed in a sari of red Benares silk as she lay on the stretcher taking her to the pyre. There was no sign on her calm, pretty face of the pain she suffered at her sad end. “Do you know how old she was? Eighteen. Do you know what it does to a father having to see his daughter lying there dead?” asked Mahesh Gurung, 52, once a proud Gurkha soldier, now a man broken. His brother Mohan gently led him away.

Afterwards, Mohan Gurung talked of sadness and hope, death and rebirth. “Of course it is terrible to see someone you love being taken away – you are angry, you feel it is unfair. That’s how I felt about what happened to my niece,” he said.

“But being here with all these other families makes you realise that you are not alone in your loss. Just a little while ago I saw a father and mother with their dead son. He was a boy, a boy of perhaps six years. What must they feel?”



He waved at the large crowd in colourful clothing which had gathered to watch the cremations. “Death is not a private matter here,” he continued over the blare of conch shells being sounded behind him, as langurs, or tree monkeys, scampered among statues that were hundreds of years old.

“But you know, we are Hindus and we find our religion a great strength. Death is not secret in these ceremonies: at the end you have to accept what has happened. And you must release the spirit to come back again, be reincarnated. What has happened has happened. We must consider the spiritual well-being of the dead.”

There were some who were deeply concerned about what happens to those left behind. Chura Shrestha and his wife, Chetana Lukusshan, were at the ghats for the funeral of cousins, Chandra and Vijaya Shrestha, in Kapon, a town near Kathmandu. “They have a young son and a young daughter who were away when this happened. There are hundreds of others like them. We need to start organising a system to deal with the post-traumatic stress disorder and the other problems all this will mean. We need to reunite the families who have been divided by this terrible thing.”

Dr Shrestha, who has a PhD in conflict resolution, and Ms Lukusshan, who is a child psychologist, are starting to organise sessions, making plans to visit areas that are still cut off. His job, he acknowledges, would help to see this task through: he is a police senior superintendent. Bearing in mind his position, it was surprising to hear his views on what had happened, and about the faults in the system that may have contributed to the slow official reaction.

Locals buy vegetables at a street market in front of a damaged temple in Kathmandu (EPA)

“We have moved from an autocratic monarchy to a constitutional one, but in the 25 years since 1990 we have had 22 different heads of government. We have instability and we have corruption and nepotism,” he said.

Superintendent Shrestha, who has been in the force for 30 years, was a pioneer of community policing in Nepal, attending courses on the subject at Britain’s police training college at Bramshill, Hampshire. “We have abolished local government,” he said. “If that had not been the case, there would have been help for many people in their own areas after the earthquake – and they wouldn’t have had to make journeys to Kathmandu, some getting killed in the process. Things worked when they were done at community level.”

Shyam Shekhar Jha, director of the Pashupatinath district, which includes the temple complex, was resigned to the apparently endless cremations. “Now we are seeing the dead being brought from villages 20 kilometres away, but soon they will come from greater distances.

“When something like the earthquake happens people naturally turn to religion: they are mourning their dead, but they are also praying to God not to let this happen again.”
</text>