<url>
http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/04/29/teaching-about-the-nepal-earthquake-with-the-new-york-times/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Teaching About the Nepal Earthquake With The New York Times
</headline>

<text>
Video

Overview | A 7.8 earthquake on April 25 battered the mountainous nation of Nepal, killing and injuring thousands, destroying entire villages, shattering treasured historic landmarks and upending life for millions of people.

In this lesson, students learn more about Nepal and the challenges the Nepali people face as they try to recover from this devastating earthquake. We suggest a variety of teaching activities that can fit into a single period, and offer additional resources and ideas for classes that want to conduct more in-depth research.



Note: Teachers should preview all videos and photographs before showing them in class to make sure they are appropriate for your particular students.

If you only have one class period…

Video: Have students first watch the three-minute video “Katmandu: Before the Quake,” created from footage The Times recently shot for a planned “36 Hours” travel feature. Then have them watch the 84-second video “Fear and Limbo in Katmandu” to see how survivors are coping in the quake’s immediate aftermath. Ask students to consider how life has changed for the people of Katmandu after the devastating April 25 earthquake, and then discuss.

Photos: Another quick activity teachers can do is to use our “WGOITP?” facilitation protocol to discuss what students see in this image, or one from the many Times slide shows taken after the earthquake. Asking students to do close observation can help them become aware of details they might have otherwise missed.

Text: With more time, you can have students read the Times article “Nepal Villages Cut Off by Earthquake Wait for Aid as Death Toll Passes 4,000″ that reports on destruction in the Nepalese countryside as well as in the capital, Katmandu. Here is an excerpt:

Two days after Nepal’s worst earthquake in 80 years, the official death toll rose to more than 4,000, and humanitarian aid was starting to flow to the capital. Katmandu’s airport had been so overloaded by aid and passenger planes that incoming flights sat for hours on the runway. Nepali expatriates were flying in, desperate to track down family members, and setting off down the airport access road on foot, rolling suitcases behind them. But outside the capital, many of the worst-hit villages in the ridges around Katmandu remain a black hole, surrounded by landslides that make them inaccessible even to the country’s armed forces. The Nepali authorities on Monday began airdropping packages of tarpaulins, dry food and medicine into mountain villages, but an attempt to land helicopters was abandoned, said Brig. Gen. Jagadish Chandra Pokharel, an army spokesman. The government is only gradually getting a grasp of the destruction in these isolated places. It is nearly impossible to identify which villages are most in need, and how many may be dead or injured, said Jeffrey Shannon, director of programs for Mercy Corps in Nepal.

Students can answer and discuss the questions below.

Where is Nepal located? How many people have been killed by the April 25th earthquake, according to the latest counts? Why is the death toll likely to rise over the coming days and weeks? Why are Nepali authorities having such a difficult time reaching some of the worst-hit villages outside Katmandu?

Slide Show

If you have more time…

The above activities can help students begin to see the extent of the destruction roiling Nepal in the wake of this weekend’s earthquake. Below, we suggest additional resources and related questions for learning more about Nepal’s history, its vulnerability to earthquakes, the initial recovery efforts, the turmoil at Mount Everest and the damage to Nepal’s historic landmarks.

Working in small groups, students can learn about one or more of these aspects and share what they find out with the rest of the class. Classes can also use this research as a jumping off point for organizing donations to relief efforts.

Nepal History and Politics

Nepal is still recovering from a 10-year civil war that ended in 2006, and up to one-quarter of Nepal’s population may be working outside the country to earn money for families because of limited economic opportunities at home. Gardiner Harris writes about how the April 25th earthquake creates major challenges for an already troubled Nepal:

The nation of 27 million was in political and economic disarray well before a powerful earthquake on Saturday shattered buildings and lives. And the natural disaster seemed sure to complicate attempts to repair the rifts opened by decades of war and political paralysis. Nepalis are known for their toughness. Sherpas and Gurkhas, both Nepali peoples, are so renowned for grit that their names have become synonyms for strength and bravery. But the country they and other Nepalis have been navigating for years is one that tests resolve. A 10-year Maoist insurgency ended in 2006, but political leaders have since been unable to agree on a constitution, despite two elections and repeated promises to reach consensus.

Students can read the entire article, and consider the following questions:

What are some of the challenges Nepal faced, even before the earthquake?

How do Nepal’s history, diversity and geography help explain the country’s “particularly toxic political culture?”

Nepal Seismology

Plate tectonics explains both how the Himalaya Mountains grew to be so tall and why earthquakes are inevitable in Nepal. Kenneth Chang explains the scientific processes at work:

More than 25 million years ago, India, once a separate island on a quickly sliding piece of the Earth’s crust, crashed into Asia. The two land masses are still colliding, pushed together at a speed of 1.5 to 2 inches a year. The forces have pushed up the highest mountains in the world, in the Himalayas, and have set off devastating earthquakes. Experts had warned of the danger to the people of Katmandu for decades. The death toll in Nepal on Saturday was practically inevitable given the tectonics, the local geology that made the shaking worse and the lax construction of buildings that could not withstand the shaking.

Students can read the entire article, and study these diagrams and maps to learn more about the extent of the damage from the Nepal earthquake. They can also investigate previous earthquakes in Nepal, like the one in 1934, and then consider the following questions:

How does plate tectonics explain the earthquake in Nepal?

How have earthquakes affected Nepal in the past century? In the past millennium?

How did the soft soil in Katmandu Valley and the lax construction of buildings contribute to the earthquake’s death toll?

How have aftershocks continued to rattle Nepal?

Video

Recovery Efforts

Providing relief for the millions of Nepali people affected by the earthquake is an enormous task. In “Frustration Grows in Nepal as Earthquake Relief Trickles In,” Chris Buckley and Austin Ramzy report:

Residents of Katmandu living in tent camps after Nepal’s powerful earthquake said on Tuesday that their biggest worry was a lack of safe drinking water, even as they endured the latest pelting of rain. That and other claims of slow disaster relief have kindled growing public frustration here with the Nepalese government, which has struggled to deliver food, water, tents and other aid across this poor, mountainous country of 28 million people. Since the earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday, killing more than 5,000 people at the latest count, the government has instituted disaster-response plans, galvanized the army and received planeloads of aid every day from dozens of other countries. The government has established 16 large camps in Katmandu, and many other residents have made do by sleeping on the street or in open spaces away from damaged buildings and walls. But residents have complained that the help is not reaching them or is arriving too slowly, and many accuse the government of incompetence, neglect or even corruption.

Students can read the entire article, and then research more about how international relief agencies, Internet companies like Facebook and Google, and even the fashion world are all trying to aid in the relief effort. And, they can learn about how thousands of Nepalese working in Katmandu and elsewhere are streaming back to their isolated villages fearing for the their families after the quake.

Then, students can consider the following questions:

What challenges does Nepal’s government face as it tries to distribute aid?

Why are many Nepalis frustrated by the government’s response so far?

How have other nations and organizations tried to provide assistance to the relief effort?

Nepal’s Cultural Treasures

With thousands dead and injured, and thousands more sleeping outside in tents and on blankets for fear of damaged or dangerous buildings, the human disaster has overwhelmed everything else in the earthquake zone. But Nepal faces another crisis, though, as many of its most treasured temples and historic sites lie in ruins. The Katmandu Valley held one of the world’s largest clusters of cultural heritage sites. Ellen Barry and Nida Najar report:

In the three days since a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal, the death toll has mounted so quickly, to more than 5,000, that most concerns other than the health and safety of its people have been put aside. Hope for finding survivors was waning, and tens of thousands of people are living in tents despite heavy rains. Reserves of clean water are running low. But in the meantime, in many places, the detritus of centuries-old temples and palaces has been left unguarded, diminishing chances to eventually rebuild one of the world’s largest clusters of cultural heritage sites. Pedestrians, possibly for sentimental value, are walking away with bricks from the 19th-century Dharahara Tower, which crashed to the earth on Saturday, trapping at least 40 people inside.

Students can read the entire article, and then compare photographs of Nepal’s historic sites before and after the quake. Note that students can click and drag many of the images to see panoramic views.

Then, they can consider the following questions:

How have Nepal’s cultural heritage sites been damaged by the earthquake?

What efforts are being made to preserve important cultural treasures?

How have these efforts fallen short so far?

Slide Show

Everest Climbers

Nepal’s earthquake set off a series of avalanches on Mount Everest, killing at least 18 people in the base camp area. Students can read “A Scene of Destruction After Ice Thunders Into Everest Base Camp,” and then watch a compilation of witness videos showing the frantic moment the earthquake touched off an avalanche at Mount Everest and the days after as rescue crews tried to reach survivors. (Note: This video contains graphic language and images.) They can also read about Dan Fredinburg, a Google engineer and avid climber, who died while at base camp.

Then, students can consider the following questions:

How did the April 25th earthquake cause so much death and destruction at Mount Everest’s base camp?

Why do many ethnic Sherpas continue to work as local guides on Mount Everest despite the immense risks?

How is this earthquake likely to affect the luster of climbing Mount Everest for visitors in the future?

First-Person Accounts

Since the earthquake, The Times has published various first-person accounts by people who witnessed the destruction as it happened. Students should read an essay by Donatella Lorch, a freelance writer based in Katmandu, about her experience living through the earthquake. If they want more, they can read these additional accounts by Kunda Dixit, the editor of The Nepali Times, and Patrick Adams, an American writer and photographer.

Then, students can consider these questions:

What was this person’s experience living through the earthquake?

Why, despite the devastation, did some people feel Nepal was lucky this time?

How did this person observe despair, perseverance and grace among the people who survived the quake?

Video

How to Help

Not knowing how to help when disaster strikes a region far from home can often make us feel powerless. The Times World section has a list of organizations collecting for Nepal, while City Room gives a look at how New York City’s Nepalese population is coping and trying to help from afar:

As reports continue to stream in from the disastrous earthquake in Nepal, it’s easy to feel powerless here in New York. Among the city’s Nepalese population, the largest in the country and centered in Queens, those feelings are coupled with the agony of having lost family members, or of not knowing their fate. Tara Niraula, a Nepalese leader here, said the community has sprung into action, despite the heartbreak. “It is natural for Nepalese people who generally are very hospitable and inviting and friendly to all come together and all share the grief,” Mr. Niraula said. He said many people were scrounging together anything they could to send to Nepal. But specific goods, including tents, mattresses, sanitation aids, water, water purifiers, blankets and medicine, are the most helpful things to collect, he said. “I just want to jump onto a plane and go,” Mr. Niraula said. “But I have to ask myself what can I really do there.” “I’m basically doing whatever I can do from here.” If you would like to make a donation, Mr. Niraula recommends the organization One Heart World-Wide, which he says has long had a presence in Nepal. Other charities are also collecting supplies and donations. Find out more.

Closing Thoughts

As we watch and read about the news of devastation thousands of miles away from the United States, it can be easy to get sucked into a sensational media event that distorts the actual events, emotions and needs of the people on the ground. Students can read Jonathan M. Katz’s essay “How Not to Report on an Earthquake,” about his experiences during the 2010 Haiti earthquake, and then consider how as media consumers (and perhaps as producers someday), we should be asking thoughtful questions about what stories are being told in the news media, and what stories are frequently not being told during a natural disaster like the one affecting Nepal right now.
</text>