<url>
http://www.niagaraadvance.ca/2015/04/29/girl-from-nepal-worried-about-friends
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Girl from Nepal worried about friends
</headline>

<text>
She feels helpless.

She has friends in Nepal from whom she has not heard. She is concerned for their safety.

Puja Acharya and her family immigrated to Canada in May 2012 from Nepal, a country hit by a devastating magnitude-7.8 earthquake Saturday that as of Wednesday had a confirmed death toll of 5,238 people. The death toll is expected to rise as emergency workers battle monsoon weather to reach the injured in rural districts outside the capital Kathmandu.

“My relatives were in the capital city at that time, and I was really worried,” said Acharya, a 19-year-old first-year biochemistry student at Brock University. “I was trying to contact them the whole night, and my call didn’t go through, so I was really worried. After, they called us and said, ‘We are safe.’ So it was really nice hearing that.”

Acharya, a St. Catharines resident, is from Dharan, 930 kilometres southeast Nepal, but she and her parents and older brother spent three years in the capital Kathmandu prior to immigrating to Canada.

“Nepal is a developing country and the political situation is unstable, therefore, my parents thought it was better for us to come to Canada for a better future,” she said.

She prays for the friends she has not heard from.

“I heard from my relatives, but not all of my friends,” she said.

“It’s very sad. I wish I could help, but I can’t even do anything except pray for everything to be alright.”

Acharya said she is comforted the global community is uniting to help the people in her homeland.

“That’s real nice, but there are still villages that haven’t gotten any rescue team or food or water … that’s really frustrating.”

Acharya said she has friends who live in districts near Kathmandu still waiting for help.

“They said they just got a rescue team, but they aren’t able to get food or water, so it’s really bad.”

The United Nations on Wednesday launched a $415 million emergency appeal to provide relief to people affected by the earthquake.

The UN News Centre website said the money would support government efforts in addressing the most critical needs of the millions of people in need of shelter, water and sanitation, emergency health, food and protection for the next three months. The UN said the quake and many powerful aftershocks destroyed approximately 70,000 houses and damaged another 530,000 across 39 of Nepal’s 75 districts.

The UN said emergency shelter is required for 500,000 people. The agency said emergency health services and medical supplies and facilities, and safe drinking water and sanitation facilities are also urgently needed for up to 4.2 million people.

The UN said as many as 1.4 million people will benefit from food assistance, including 750,000 in hard-to-reach areas.

rob.houle@sunmedia.ca

Twitter: RobH_Standard
</text>