<url>
http://www.nzherald.co.nz/wanganui-chronicle/news/article.cfm?c_id=1503426&objectid=11440860
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Family on a mission to help in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Saturday's devastating earthquake in Nepal has compelled a Wanganui couple to ask for public help to get there.

Tasha and Sean Shemwell want to get back into long-term mission work.

They trained for it in England and spent about nine months doing volunteer work in Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines and Bangladesh.

They have a job opportunity at the Kathmandu International Study Centre. It's a school for mission children, set up by the United Mission to Nepal in 1987. Mr Shemwell would manage the building and do community outreach. Mrs Shemwell would look after their children and also use her skills to help patients with rehabilitation.

Advertisement

They're looking for enough people to make monthly contributions to their living expenses, pray for them and take an interest in what they do. Sponsors have already made commitments, and they are reaching others through blog sites.

They are Christian, but motivated by the desire to help rather than the wish to convert people.

"We are not evangelists. We believe that, actually, we are called to love people, serve people and help people."

They had a strong desire to help even before they became Christian, Mrs Shemwell said.

They were in Sri Lanka for three months in 2007, helping with the tsunami rebuild and teaching English. When they returned to England to tell people about it, they found only church groups were interested.

A minister said he was surprised they were not motivated by faith. His remark started their spiritual journey, and they became Christian in 2009.

A year's mission training in Birmingham gave them a grounding in working with other cultures.

It's been an up and down journey since then. Three months into a five-year hospital project in Bangladesh, Mr Shemwell was beaten up by Muslim extremists. Their family was threatened, and they returned to England. Then a stint in Thailand fell through.

They emigrated to New Zealand with son Archie in 2013.

Mrs Shemwell got an occupational therapy job at Wanganui Hospital, and her husband spent his time doing voluntary work in the streets with needy people.

Two days before Christmas that year their rented Kells Ave house was burgled and set on fire. They lost everything, but were overwhelmed by the generosity of the community.

Whanganui Police have never found who lit the fire.

Since then they've been living with friends Linda and Robert Scott. And since the birth of Ella, in January, neither of them have a job. They were accepted by Serving in Mission last year.

They now want to commit themselves long-term to work in Nepal. They would stay there for three years, sending quarterly letters to sponsors, then return to Wanganui for six months, before returning to Nepal for another three years.

"We've got the heart and the training for it. We just want to be used," Mrs Shemwell said.
</text>