<url>
http://www.illawarramercury.com.au/story/3044170/vincentia-woman-caught-in-nepal-quake-disaster/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Vincentia woman caught in Nepal quake disaster
</headline>

<text>
Vincentia's Nicky Cannon pictured in Nepal before taking what was most likely the last flight out following the devastating earthquake. Picture: Supplied

Vincentia's Nicky Cannon was on a plane while aftershocks shook the already crumbling city around Kathmandu airport.

She was thinking about the damaged home of the man who got her to the airport.



She said sitting in the plane was the longest 30 minutes of her life.

“I was sitting on the tarmac in the plane when an aftershock hit,” Mrs Cannon said.

“My immediate response was to get off the plane but someone said planes were built to withstand turbulence and we should stay on the plane.

“People were running out onto the tarmac, evacuating onto the tarmac.

“Luckily, my plane took off,” she said.

Earlier that day it was the generous nature of the Nepalese people that helped Mrs Cannon get to Kathmandu airport amid the chaos of the damaged city.

After the initial quake Mrs Cannon made her way to a friend’s hotel which had a generator and WiFi to get in touch with her family in Australia.

“I contacted my husband in Vincentia and a relative in Canada who works in travel who got me on a flight out,” she said.



“The only way I could get to the airport was by a random person on a motorbike.

“He asked me why I was so worried. Meanwhile, his home was crumbling.

“I owe a lot to him. I know who he is and where he lives and will do something to help him,” she said.

Mrs Cannon and her husband Steve own the From Nepal store in Huskisson and have been travelling to the country for 28 years.

Now back home, the shock of what happened was starting to sink in.

“I’ve accounted for most of our friends who are all right, but I’m still worried about a few,” she said.

“The Nepalese have such faith and strong beliefs, they will get through this.

“It’s their soil, it’s their home.

“It’s difficult for us as foreigners, but they will survive,” she said.

Her husband Steve Cannon learned about the earthquake about an hour after it hit.

“Nicky was the one who told me about it within an hour of it happening,” he said.

“I think she was in shock when I spoke to her. She had trouble even going into a building to go to the toilet.

“Knowing the layout of Kathmandu there’s not a lot of open space, and if they’re saying there’s a certain number of people found dead now, you know there’s a hell of a lot more they haven’t found yet,” he said.

Christine Aryal from North Nowra agreed the death toll would continue to rise.

Mrs Aryal is married to a Nepalese man, Madhav, who has family throughout Nepal.

Their family members in Nepal are all accounted for but Mrs Aryal is worried about how many more people will be suffering in the many villages that are yet to be accessed.

“Even today they are still discovering remote villages that have been damaged,” she said.

“The roads there are bad on the best days, they will be terrible now.”

She said there were seven Nepalese families living in the Nowra area and all had been told their relatives were accounted for.

“We were at a dinner on Saturday night, when my daughter said we got a message from someone saying they were praying for our family.

“It wasn’t until we got home that we could read the message.”

Her husband immediately tried to make contact with his family.

Mrs Aryal was in tears as she explained when her husband phoned his family they did not answer for a long time because they were all outside and had been too scared to enter the house and answer the phone.

“Madhav was just over there in February for a wedding,” she said.

“They keep asking us to pray for them.

“I think the death toll is going to be quite high.”

Evelyn and Maurice Sandstrom from Culburra Beach were on their way to the airport in Nepal when the earthquake struck.

By the time they arrived, the terminal was shut and all flights out were cancelled.

They spent the next two freezing nights sleeping outside the airport.

Their daughter Amanda Sandstrom is a school teacher at Sanctuary Point Public School. With communications down and aftershocks continuing she spent that time worrying about her mother and father.

She heard from her parents on Saturday so she knew they had survived the initial quakes.

On Monday night they sent a message to say they were safe at Kuala Lumpur.

“My parents travel a lot, they’ve been to over 65 countries, so I don’t check every detail of their itinerary,” Miss Sandstrom said.

“They had been travelling around Asia when my dad insisted they go to Nepal. Mum will be absolutely cursing him now.

“I remembered seeing something about Nepal on their itinerary when I heard about the earthquake in the news.

“They contacted me after the earthquake to say they were leaving for the airport when it hit.

“They said the buildings were falling down around them everywhere and people were running. They said it was scary.

“I was optimistic that everything was going to be all right.” she said.

southcoastregister.com.au
</text>