<url>
http://shahernama.com/earthquake-slams-nepal-more-than-150-dead/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Earthquake slams Nepal, more than 2500 dead
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu, A massive 7.9 magnitude earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force early Saturday, killing more than 2500 people in Nepal’s capital city, authorities said.

The injured were being treated outside hospitals in chaotic scenes. Residents, terrorized by a series of strong aftershocks, huddled outdoors. Historic buildings in Kathmandu lay in rubble on the ground.

The death toll was reported by Nepal’s Ministry of Home Affairs. Given that the rescue effort is still in its early stages and that people in outlying areas may well have been affected, as well, it seems possible the number could rise.

Reporters on the ground say most of the buildings and temples that have collapsed in Nepal in the wake of the earthquake are old ones. Most of the newly-built structures have managed to withstand the tremors.

According to the MoD spokesperson, one C-130J Superhercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force is on its way to Kathmandu with NDRF teams for relief and rescue efforts. More flights will be undertaken to Nepal to carry medical teams and doctors.

Ministry of Defence spokesperson Sitanshu Kar has tweeted that an Indian Army Everest expedition team along with Sherpas are safe.

Nepal death toll from quake rises to 449, says Reuters quoting police

There are reports of 10-12 casualties in some states but we are awaiting confirmation. Damage to property also reported – Rajnath Singh.

Kathmandu, which sits in a valley surround by the Himalayas, has a population of 1 million people.

People who experienced the quake used the telephone to describe to CNN scenes of confusion, chaos, fear and suffering.

CNN’s Manesh Shrestha, who was hurt himself, said he saw five bodies at a hospital to which he walked to seek treatment. People with severe injuries were lying outside, with doctors administering CPR to at least one person, Shrestha said.

An man walks past damage caused by an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25, 2015.

Powerful earthquake hits Nepal 11 photos

EXPAND GALLERY

“It’s quite chaotic,” he said by phone. “People are wailing, crying.”

Shrestha, who needed stitches, was turned away because other people were in more dire need of medical care. He said he saw people with broken bones and severe head injuries.

Avalanches were reported on Mount Everest, sending mountaineers running for cover.

“Everest base camp huge earthquake then huge avalanche from pumori,” Twitter user Alex Gavan said. “Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain.”
</text>