<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3060936/Parents-British-backpacker-missing-Nepal-quake-4-days-hit-shambolic-response-UK-government-LOSE-details-make-suffering-worse.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Missing British backpacker in Nepal's parents hit out at UK government response
</headline>

<text>
The family of a British man who is still missing in Nepal has criticised the Foreign and Commonwealth Office's 'shambolic response' to the earthquake which has now killed over 5,000 in the country.

Matt Carapiet was trekking to Langtang Valley - around 30km north of the capital Kathmandu - two days before the earthquake struck and wiped out most of the village he was en route to.

His distraught family told MailOnline they have no idea if the 23-year-old, who was nursing a bad knee injury at the time, decided to stay in the mountainous area which was decimated by landslides on Saturday.

The four days since then have been 'unbearable for the family, who are desperate for any information of their son'.

Scroll down for video

Missing: 23-year-old Matt Carapiet from Kent (pictured) was hiking north of Nepal's capital Kathmandu two days before the earthquake struck and wiped out the village of Langtang where he was trekking to

In danger: His family are furious at the Foreign Office call centre handling the crisis, who have twice lost their emergency contact details and had Matt (pictured) registered under the wrong name

Journey: He last called his family in Bearstead on April 19 when he was at the Lama Hotel in Kathmandu to tell them he would begin trekking to Langtang valley - which was destroyed in the quake - two days later

Mystery: His family say there is no way of knowing where Matt (pictured) was on Saturday when the quake struck and they have not had any information on his whereabouts since

Their suffering was made worse when an FCO call centre handling the response lost their details and registered the wrong name as his emergency contact, which could have hindered his extraction.

They are among dozens of British families enduring an agonising wait to receive information on the whereabouts of their loved ones following the harrowing news that at least one Brit has died in Nepal.

Matt flew to Kathmandu for the final stop of his tour of Asia as part of his gap year before starting a Masters in architecture.

The last time he called his family in Bearsted, Kent was on April 19 when he was in Kathmandu to let them know he was preparing to start the Langtang Trail two days later.

A fellow backpacker who saw him on April 23 later contacted Matt's family to tell them he had been in the village of Thangsyrap - en route to Langtang.

He said Matt was considered returning to the his hotel in Kathmandu on account of his knee injury but other backpackers convinced him 'Langtang was beautiful' and worth the three hours of trekking.

His family released a statement to MailOnline saying: 'As far as we know, Matt took his advice. There is no way of knowing where he was by noon on Saturday.

'Langtang Village was almost destroyed in a landslide, as were several smaller villages nearby.

Hope: The Carapiet's 'spend every moment waiting for the phone to ring to hear his voice or hear news of a sighting of Matt'

Furious: The Carapiet family are furious that a Foreign Office call centre set up to handle the rescue response lost their contact details twice and had Matt (pictured) registered under the wrong name

'Matt may have stayed there, or he may have walked back to lower villages where survivors are known to be stranded.'

The Carapiets said they 'spend every moment waiting for the phone to ring to hear his voice or hear news of a sighting of him' and 'the shambolic organisation of the FCO's response has made their suffering worse'.

There is no way of knowing where he was by noon on Saturday. Langtang Village was almost destroyed in a landslide, as were several smaller villages nearby... Matt may have stayed there, or he may have walked back to lower villages where survivors are known to be stranded Matt Carapiet's family

Matt's family rang the Foreign Office and the British Embassy in Nepal on Sunday, the day after the quake struck, to hand over their emergency contact details and make sure his name was on a list of the missing.

They were assured his name would be registered and distributed to pilots making rescue runs into the mountains.

But when they rang for an update on Tuesday, the FCO incredibly told them that no emergency contact details had been registered.

They rang again on Wednesday to discover they had the correct phone number for Matt but someone called Jacqueline Kilpatrick - who they had never heard of - was registered as his emergency contact.

When his mother Jill was told 'it was more than likely' that he was on the emergency rescue list, she grew increasingly worried that he was not and he may be overlooked.

The family said: 'Everything we know has been through the help of people on social media and other kind strangers.

'We would expect the FCO to play a better role in informing and reassuring the families of victims about the status of their missing loved ones.'

Destruction: Matt was traveling to the Langtang (pictured) two days before the 7.8-magnitude struck Nepal and caused landslides which leveled much of the valley

Anger: Matt's family do not know if he was in Langtang (pictured) or nearby villages that were destroyed or if he is stranded further down the mountain where other trekkers have become stranded

After hearing nothing through official channels since Wednesday, they contacted the Foreign Office themselves only to be agonisingly directed to a call centre where handlers promised to 'pass messages on'.

His 25-year-old sister Christina said today: 'We are all really worried, we are just praying for a miracle really.

We haven't heard any news at all. I just want to say to Matt, we miss you and please get in touch as soon as you can.'

We are all really worried, we are just praying for a miracle really... We haven't heard any news at all. I just want to say to Matt, we miss you and please get in touch as soon as you can Christina Carapiet, Matt's sister

The Carapiets are not the only family growing increasingly angry over the lack of communication from the British Embassy in Nepal and the FCO.

Nina Ross, whose 20-year-old sister Susannah is stranded in Langtang valley with fellow trekkers until at least tomorrow, says the response has been 'very frustrating'.

Her family received a satellite message from Susannah at 5am this morning to say her group has flattened some land to create a make-shift helicopter pad.

Nina said: 'We're really hoping to get through to different embassies to hurry it up because there's still falling rocks in that area that are killing people.

'We really need pressure on the embassies, on any kind of charities, on anyone, to get helicopters out there.'

She is furious that people from other countries were lifted out yesterday as their embassies had paid for helicopters.

Adding: 'So the British embassy haven't paid for helicopters to get Susannah out and that means that she's been left there with some people.'

Tragedy: The Carapiets have criticised Commonwealth Office's 'shambolic response' to the earthquake (pictured) which has now killed over 5,000 in the country

Nina said they had indicated they would launch a rescue attempt today but she said they 'changed their mind' and are not sending a helicopter today.

She said that, due to this, the family 'don't really trust that they are sending one tomorrow', and said she did not know how much food or water the group had left.

Britain has so far donated £5million in response to the crisis in a package that includes trauma medics, heavy-lifting equipment and humanitarian experts as fears rise that the death toll from Saturday's earthquake will exceed 10,000.

As donations continue to roll in, the government's emergency committee Cobra will discuss the disaster today after increasing the UK's aid contribution to £15million.

Gurkha engineers and soldiers are already on the ground with 60 British search-and-rescue experts, to be joined by signals specialists to help restore communications across the devastated country.

Britain is also said to be preparing to send three Chinook helicopters to help with airlifts of supplies on the mountainsides around Everest, while two plane-loads of supplies from the UK are due to arrive today.

Flattened: Buildings in parts of the country were reduced to rubble by Saturday's quake

Matt Carapiet's parents – Jill and Greg Carapiet – want to know the British Government is doing everything it can to liaise with rescue agencies and keep in touch with local police and health workers in Nepal to trace their missing son.

But they claim they have been given no such assurance, only silence, adding: 'This is a dire emergency.

'For the sake of all families involved in this terrible disaster, the government must improve its dire response to it.'

Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond has since said: 'Foreign Office staff continue to work around the clock tracing British nationals and getting them to safety in the wake of this catastrophe.

'More than 300 who had no accommodation have been hosted by our Embassy in Kathmandu and we have arranged for around 120 to be repatriated on a flight chartered by the UK Government to deliver relief supplies.

'The situation remains extremely challenging due to widespread infrastructure damage caused by the earthquakes, landslides and avalanches. Search and rescue teams, medics and our armed services are on the ground now helping British nationals and others in need.

'Hundreds of Britons have now been accounted for and our teams are working closely with the Nepalese army and authorities to locate British nationals in remote areas and get them to safety.

'We know that this is an agonising time for those who are waiting for news of loved ones. But the scale of the disaster and the limited communications means that it may be some time before we can account for everyone.
</text>