<url>
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-2-315460-Briefs...
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Briefs...
</headline>

<text>
Briefs...

Alleged killer held in Swat

By our correspondent

MINGORA: The police arrested an alleged killer in Bala Sor village in the Matta subdivision of Swat district on Tuesday, sources said. The sources said that acting on a tip-off, the police raided a house in Chapriyal and arrested Zameer, who was involved in the killing of his step-brother, Muhammad Rahman, and sister-in-law (A) over an honour-related issue. The police also seized a pistol used in the crime, sources added.



300 Mohmand Levies Force recruits pass out

By our correspondent

GHALLANAI: The passing-out parade for the 300 recruits of the Mohmand Levies Force was organised here on Tuesday. Presiding over the passing out parade, Inspector General Frontier Corps (FC) Maj-General Tayyab Azam said the security forces provided basic training to the recruits. He awarded prizes to instructors Kabir Ahmed, Naeem, Ajmal Khan and Sardar Hussain. Some of the recruits, including Shabir Ahmed, Kamran Khan and Waqar Ahmed, also received prizes for their good performance. Speaking on the occasion, the IGFC said that the citizens supported security forces in the war against terrorism and militants. He said 100 Khassadars and Levies Force personnel had laid down their lives for the security of the country.



After Nepal quake, India may be next: experts

By Muhammad Saleh Zaafir

ISLAMABAD: India is in the grip of panic in the wake of the strong 7.9 magnitude earthquake that killed over three thousand people in Nepal and left a swathe of devastation in the northern Himalayas on Saturday. Indian experts said a temblor of equal intensity is “overdue” in northern India. “An earthquake of the same magnitude is overdue. That may happen either today or 50 years from now in the region of the Kashmir, Himachal, Punjab and Uttrakhand Himalyas. Seismic gaps have been identified in these regions,” BK Rastogi, director general of the Ahmedabad-based Indian Institute of Seismological Research, told media. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Saturday’s quake, measuring 6 on the Richter scale in Delhi, had a depth of 10 km and its impact lasted up to one minute. The US Geological Survey said the epicenter was in Nepal’s Lamjung district some 75 km from Kathmandu. The aftershocks were felt even half-an-hour after the quake and some lasted till evening.



Four peace body members injured in Tirah clash

By our correspondent

BARA: Four members of a pro-government peace committee sustained injuries in a clash with militants in the Tirah Valley of Khyber Agency, sources said on Tuesday. The sources said security forces and a pro-government organisation Tauheed-ul-Islam (TI) jointly attacked the hideouts of the militants in Seray Kandao in Tirah Valley. Four members of the TI were injured when the explosive device went off in one of the captured bunkers.The injured members were identified as Qeemat Khan, Said Amin, Gul Sher and Said Rehman, who were shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Kohat where Gul Sher was stated to be in a critical condition.



Cops, militants trade fire in Mardan

By our correspondent

MARDAN: The police foiled an attack on the Lundkhwar Police Station on Monday night, official sources said. They said that militants opened fire on a constable outside the Lundkhwar Police Station. Constable Atif returned the fire and cops of the police stations took positions on the rooftop of the building. However, the attackers managed to escape after the exchange of fire with the police. The cops remained unhurt in the attack. The Counter Terrorist Department (CTD) registered a case against militants under sections 324, 353 and 7ATA and started investigations.



Woman injured in Peshawar bomb explosion

By our correspondent

PESHAWAR: A woman was wounded and a vehicle of security forces narrowly escaped a bomb attack in Hayatabad on Tuesday. A police official said a suspected militant was killed when his suicide vest went off soon after a vehicle of security forces passed through the area. The security personnel remained unharmed in the attack, but a woman teacher, Rabia, sustained injuries in the blast. She was taken to the Hayatabad Medical Complex.



35 held during Kohat search operation

By our correspondent

KOHAT: The police arrested 35 suspected persons, including two Afghan nationals, during a search operation in the Kohat Development Authority Township and recovered arms, sources said on Tuesday. The sources said that the police during the door-to-door search operation in the KDA Township recovered sophisticated weapons, including Kalashnikovs, pistols and other rifles. The police claimed to have arrested 35 persons, including two Afghan nationals, during the search.



400 FC recruits pass out in Khar

By our correspondent

KHAR: The passing-out parade of 400 recruits of the Frontier Corps (FC) was held at the headquarters of Bajaur Scouts in Bajaur Agency on Tuesday. Inspector General FC Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Major-General Tayyab Azam was the chief guest on the occasion. Political Agent Bajaur Muhammad Yahya Khan, Sector Commander North Brigadier Ziaul Islam, Commandant Bajaur Scouts Colonel Mir Amir Ali and a large number of tribal elders were also present on the occasion.


</text>