<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-04/29/c_134195485.htm
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Residents in Kathmandu spend chilly night in open air three days after devastating quake - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
by Zhang Ning, Menisha

KATHMANDU, April 29 (Xinhua) -- Some 1,000 residents in Nepal' s capital Kathmandu on Tuesday spent the chilly night in the open air at the city's Tundikhel Ground for fear of possible aftershocks from Saturday's devastating earthquake.

The venue, an army club stadium, is crowed with hundreds of tents with a variety of colors of red, yellow and blue.

The temperature at the night stood at around 15 centigrade but people had to set up bonfires to keep themselves warm.

Inside a white-colored tent with words of"Nepalese Red Cross", pots, bowls and plates were on the humid ground.

Suman Gautam, 48, told Xinhua that the Red Cross had provided his family with the tent on Saturday when the quake tore down his residential building.

Gautam's makeshift home was among scores of the Red Cross tents at the venue and the group is racing with the time and in a hard bid to intensify its aid mission.

There were complaints from the residents and they were waiting for international aid which had not reached them.

Inside a massive tent, dozens of people gathered, sipping tea and chatting.

Menisha, a-16-year-old girl, was playing with her"Tiger", a seven-year-old male dog.

Manisha's tent was housing her whole family and neighbors."My house building was not totally damaged in the quake, but the cracks caused by the tremor is scaring,"said Manisha.

Echoing Manisha, Manila Onta Shrestha, 36, said "Many people prefer to live in the open ground due to the fear."

Manila's teaching job is halted as most of schools in Kathmandu are closed. "One of my friends working with a bank told me that she only works for one hour per day after the earthquake,"said Manila.

In Kathmandu, many residents are fleeing to other parts of the country for their safety.

As the darkness was falling on the Tundikhel Ground, hundreds people were standing in queue for water distribution by the army. Water distribution comes four or five times per day, making cooking and washing possible.

The public tab water system has been paralyzed and most of the city residents are dependent on water distribution vehicles.

Nepal's army personnel were deployed at the Tundikhel Ground to maintain order and stability.

The 7.9-magnitude quake hit Nepal at midday on Saturday. The death toll from the powerful earthquake in Nepal has soared to 5, 057 and a total of 10,915 others were injured, said the Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday.

The home ministry also said that around 454,769 people were displaced.

Nepal has declared three days of national mourning for the quake victims.
</text>