<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/earthquake-nepal-embassy-india-tremors-krishna-prasad-dhakal/1/432176.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
India-Nepal share roti-beti relationship, says official
</headline>

<text>
Nepal has been crippled by a devastating earthquake. TV images show vast devastation in our neighbouring country. The count of dead is increasing by the hour there are hundreds of tourists stranded at various parts of Nepal. India is extending all possible help and one rescue team has already landed at Kathmandu. Headlines Today met with the Deputy Chief of Commission in the Nepal Embassy, Krishna Prasad Dhakal for more information.

HLT: There has been tremendous devastation in Nepal after the earthquake. Has national emergency been declared?

KP Dhakal: As of now, what I can say is that national emergency may be declared soon. Right now there hasn't been such declaration. There's no official word on it. Such a devastation has happened after 80 years in Nepal and our cities and villages have been affected.

HLT: Give us a detailed account of the devastation that Nepal is seeing and what is the preparedness of the agencies?

KP Dhakal: I am sad to say that there has been widespread devastation. Right from capital city Kathmandu to other major cities and villages as well. Loss of life has been huge. More than 500 people have died and the count is going up. There is no count of loss of property.

HLT: We hear that there has been some damage to the Indian Embassy as well. Could you confirm

KP Dhakal: There has been some damage to the embassy but it is not much. Local news has it that there has been some damage.

HLT: What has been the state of villages? How are you reaching out?

KP Dhakal: The old city houses have been broken. In villages, most of the houses aren't cemented and hundreds of houses have been devastated. A lot of property has been lost. The government of Nepal is accessing the situation and Nepal Army, Nepal Police with other authorities are operational all over Nepal. We are doing an assessment and strategy is being worked out.

HLT: There would be hundreds of tourists stranded in various parts of Nepal? What sort of assistance is being provided to them? Is there a count of how many Indians are stuck right now?

KP Dhakal: This is a tourist season and there are hundreds of tourists stuck at various parts. As of now, we do not have exact information what kind of problems they are facing or where they are stranded. Priority is to rescue tourists and we are analysing the situation. It may take a few days for us to get information about foreigners at various locations.

HLT: What sort of assistance are you getting right now?

KP Dhakal: Government of India has already sent a rescue team and government of Nepal could request other countries for help as well. A decision on it would be taken as well.

HLT: There are many who have their close ones, relatives and friends in Nepal. What's the message for them?

KP Dhakal: I want to tell them that this is a big tragedy for Nepal and people. This is time when we need to be patient. India, Nepal share a "roti and beti" relationship. Government of Nepal is committed to the rescue work and saving lives of the people. We will do our level best to help them so they need not worry. Government of Nepal and friendly nations are there for help.
</text>