<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-29/australian-defence-aircraft-still-unable-to-land-in-nepal/6430802
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Aid, RAAF medical evacuation teams on way to Nepal but ADF aircraft still unable to land
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Aid, RAAF medical evacuation teams on way to Nepal but ADF aircraft still unable to land

Updated

Two C-17 Globemaster heavy lift aircraft loaded with shelter kits and health supplies for the survivors of the Nepal earthquake have flown out of the RAAF's Amberley base in Queensland — but the defence force says evacuations of Australians will not begin until tomorrow at the earliest.

The aircraft are carrying nearly 15 tonnes of Australian aid as well as two RAAF aero medical evacuation teams.

Specialist Defence logistic staff have also been deployed to help Australians return home, along with additional ADF personnel to support embassy staff in Kathmandu.

But chief of joint operations Vice Admiral David Johnston said Kathmandu's airport was too heavily congested for Australian Defence Force (ADF) aircraft to land in the earthquake-ravaged capital.

"We have not been able to get any ADF aircraft in there yet," Vice Admiral Johnston told reporters in Canberra.

"DFAT [the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade] has deployed a consular response team which is on the ground in Kathmandu now, but they move by civilian means, not by military means.

"There are only nine parking bays at the airport for aircraft so with the many nations that are now seeking to contribute we've got work to do to synchronise our own arrivals, but I'm expecting that should be able to occur later this week."

Vice Admiral Johnston said evacuations would begin as soon as the aircraft were able to land in Kathmandu, and the C-17s would fly out to Bangkok.

"Right from the first entry, and I'm hopeful that may be as early as Thursday, but it is all about airport access for us, those aircraft on their initial entry will be available to take people back out with them," he said.

Aid groups said providing emergency shelter kits would be critical as weather conditions worsened.

World Vision Australia's Majella Hurney said rain was making the situation worse.

"So many homes and buildings have been destroyed and people are sleeping out in the open and they're sleeping in really difficult conditions given that it's been raining and it's very wet," Ms Hurney said.

"Obviously with the monsoon coming in five weeks, there's a real need to make sure there's appropriate shelter."

Ms Hurney also urged the Australian Government to provide more financial help to Nepal.

"As the humanitarian situation is evolving and we're getting a clearer picture of needs, we know that more funding will be needed and so we would encourage the Government to give more in line with those needs and Australia's capacity to give."

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, relief-and-aid-organisations, nepal, australia

First posted
</text>