<url>
http://www.thephuketnews.com/phuket-team-flies-out-to-join-nepal-relief-effort-52096.php
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Phuket team flies out to join Nepal relief effort
</headline>

<text>
PHUKET: A team of rescue experts from Patong Hospital is today (April 29) waiting to join 42 other similarly qualified Thais on an aircraft to Nepal to help the quake-battered country get back on its feet.

Wednesday 29 April 2015, 03:57PM

Phuket's DMAT team, photographed when they took part in a rescue competition in Japan in March this year. Phuket News file phot

Announcing this today, Governor Nisit Jansomwong said, “We received kindness from others [after the 2004 Asia Tsunami] so now it is time for us to do our part.”

He said that the 13-person Disaster Medical Assistance Team (DMAT) from Patong Hospital is being funded by the Phuket Public Health Department.

In addition, he announced that an official funds donation centre will open next Thursday (May 7) in front of the Provincial Hall. An official donation bank account has already opened.

In the meantime Red Cross staff are touring the island with donation boxes, or people can donate cash at the Damrongtham Centre, which is in the Provincial Hall complex.

Phuket Governor Nisit added, “We will not receive donation of items [such as clothing, tents or food] because transportation might be a problem. Cash is the best option.”

The official donation centre will open for cash donations just for the one day, May 7, but the bank account is open now and will remain open until the end of May.

The account is with Krung Thai Bank, Phuket Branch. Account name: Phuket Unity Helps Nepal People, account number 805-066-9254

Asst Prof Pranee Sakulpipatana, the Honorary Consul of Nepal in Phuket, who was at the announcement, said, “The Nepalese people in Phuket are focused on helping Nepal. The people of Nepal need help. We will make sure that the money is put to good use.”

Her adviser, Phanuphong Limbuprasertkul, said, “I would like to thank everyone. We have already collected about B400,000. We are thankful that Thais are so kind.”

Meantime, the Revenue Department has announced that a central donation account is now open. At the Krung Thai Bank branch at the Office of the Prime Minister in Bangkok. The account number is 067-0-10330-6, account name Thai Heart Sent to Nepal.

The Revenue Department has added a reminder that people and companies who donate to registered charities and keep receipts are entitled to tax deductions.

Also in Phuket, the Rotary Club of Patong Beach (RCPB) is collecting money, which will be sent through Rotary channels direct to Rotary Clubs in the disaster areas.

“This will guarantee that all funds make it to the victims because Rotary is a 100-per-cent volunteer organisation and no funds given for charity are ever used for administration costs,” said the RCPB President, Brad Kenny, today.

“This all relates back to how many people helped us during our time in need, the 2004 Asia Tsunami. The Rotary Club of Patong Beach had more than US$1 million ([B30 million] donated from people around the world for our relief work in Thailand.

“This is our way acknowledge how the world opened their hearts to us and to give back on behalf of all Phuketians.”

Those wishing to donate to the RCPB fundraising drive should visit rotarypatong.org and click on “Bank Account Details” for directions. All donations must be followed up with an email or phone call to Mr Kenny, with details of the amount and stating that the donation is earmarked for the Nepal Disaster Relief Fund.

Mr Kenny’s email is president@rotarypatong.org and his phone number is 081-633-4279.

Highly experienced international organisations that are accepting donations via Internet payments include:

Care, which is preparing to provide temporary shelter, ready-to-eat meals, water purification and latrine construction;

Oxfam, which is working to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food;

Save the Children, working to protect vulnerable children and provide relief to families;

Unicef, working with the government and other partners to meet children’s immediate needs in water and sanitation, protection, health and nutrition; and

The World Food Programme, providing food to those in need.
</text>