<url>
http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Britains_Gurkhas_battle_to_help_families_after_Nepal_quake_999.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Britain's Gurkhas battle to help families after Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>










Britain's Gurkhas battle to help families after Nepal quake

By Katherine HADDON

London (AFP) April 28, 2015





Red Cross in Philippines sending typhoon teams to Nepal

Manila (AFP) April 28, 2015 - Red Cross teams in the Philippines with experience of Super Typhoon Haiyan in 2013 are being sent to Nepal to help victims of the deadly quake, a spokeswoman said Tuesday. Manila (AFP) April 28, 2015 - Red Cross teams in the Philippines with experience of Super Typhoon Haiyan in 2013 are being sent to Nepal to help victims of the deadly quake, a spokeswoman said Tuesday. A total of 30 Filipinos from the local and international Red Cross offices are being dispatched this week, said Gwendolyn Pang, secretary-general of the Philippine Red Cross. "Philippine Red Cross chairman Richard Gordon directed us to make sure we support our neighbouring countries because when we were hit by disasters in the past, we also received overwhelming support from Red Cross headquarters (abroad)," she said. The first team of a Filipino doctor and four nurses will leave by Thursday as part of an emergency field hospital team that will work with 10 personnel from the Canadian Red Cross and government, she said. A 13-member field rescue team from the Philippine Red Cross will follow in a few days and they will be joined by 12 water and sanitation experts, Pang added. Many of the aid workers took part in local relief activities after Haiyan, the strongest storm ever to make landfall, slammed into the central Philippines in November 2013, bringing tsunami-like storm surges that wiped out entire villages and left more than 7,350 people dead or missing. Many other countries and relief agencies rushed to help the Philippines after the disaster. "We were also in our darkest moments but they also came in to support us so we would like to give back," stressed Pang. Separated by thousands of miles from their devastated homeland, Britain's community of Gurkha soldiers past and present is rallying to help victims of the earthquake in Nepal. The 2,500-strong Gurkha brigade, soldiers recruited in Nepal, has been part of the British army for 200 years including on the frontlines in Afghanistan and Iraq. They are famed for their ferocity and tenacity, and they use as their symbol the curved, machete-like kukri knives which they carry in battle. As well as serving soldiers, there are still communities of retired Gurkhas dotted around Britain who often settle near military bases after leaving the army. "We're trying to raise money but how we're going to do this, I don't know. It's not just one village -- it's villages all over the country," Om Prakash Gurung, chairman of the British Gurkha Veterans Association, told AFP. "Nepal is a very poor country and our families depend on us -- we're the breadwinners," he said. Gurung served as a Gurkha for 22 years, following in the footsteps of his father and grandfather, and now runs a Nepalese restaurant in Nuneaton, central England. "I feel very sad. When I watch television, I think 'what can I do?'" he said, adding that he and other members of the town's Nepalese community were trying to keep in touch with their families every few hours. More than 5,000 people have died and the United Nations says a total of eight million have been affected by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake which struck mountainous Nepal on Saturday. - Family on the street - Dozens of serving Gurkhas flew out from Britain late Monday to help the aid effort, along with 1,100 shelter kits and 1,700 solar lanterns, and more troops could be mobilised to help in the coming days. A march marking 200 years of Gurkha service to Britain on Thursday is expected to include a commemoration of the earthquake victims. Meanwhile, former Gurkhas around the country -- who for years have supported relatives at home by sending money back -- are trying their hardest to help their country in its hour of need. Dhan Gurung was a Gurkha for 18 years and still lives near Shorncliffe Camp in Kent, southeast England, regimental headquarters of the Royal Gurkha Rifles. He organised a vigil on Monday night attended by 1,000 people carrying candles and waving Nepalese flags and is trying to raise cash for tents, sleeping bags, torches and cooking pots. "In Kathmandu, my family are outside on the street and I don't know how they cope. The majority of the community members' families are homeless and two members lost their family as well," he said. Gurung, the first former Gurkha to be elected as a local politician in Britain, added that there was "great sadness" in the community. But he added: "The Gurkha nature will always try to be calm and deal with this whole thing." The Gurkhas, whose name comes from a hill village in western Nepal, first served with the British army in 1815 after impressing military chiefs during a war between troops based in British-run India and Nepal. In recent years, Gurkha veterans fought a long battle, backed by British actress Joanna Lumley, to secure the right to live in Britain after leaving the army, resolved in their favour in 2009. They remain Nepalese citizens during their military service. Acknowledging the role played by Gurkhas, Britain's Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said Tuesday it was time to support them "in their hour of anxiety and need". A major charity appeal to help the earthquake's victims, hosted by Lumley, will be shown on all of Britain's main television channels later on Tuesday. Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution.



SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



.

Related Links

Bringing Order To A World Of Disasters

A world of storm and tempest

When the Earth Quakes







Tweet



Comment on this article via your Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, Hotmail login.



Share this article via these popular social media networks

del.icio.us Digg Reddit Google





Memory Foam Mattress Review SPACE MEDIA NETWORK PROMOTIONS

Solar Energy Solutions

Tempur-Pedic Mattress Comparison ...

Newsletters :: SpaceDaily :: SpaceWar :: TerraDaily :: Energy Daily

XML Feeds :: Space News :: Earth News :: War News :: Solar Energy News


</text>