<url>
http://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/nepal-earthquake-former-newcastle-student-9143990
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Former Newcastle student is at the heart of rescue efforts in his hometown
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

The Nepalese earthquake has devastated the home village of a student who spent 10 years on Tyneside.

Tshering Lama’s achievements against the odds won him scores of admirers while he was studying in the North East.

Now, he is having to show the same determination as he struggles to help the victims of the earthquake which has killed an estimated 5,000 people.

Tshering’s journey started 13 years ago in his mountain village in Nepal and ended in 2012 when he was awarded a PhD by Northumbria University.

He returned to Nepal as the country director for the charity Childreach International, and he has just been chosen as one of the World Economic Forum’s Young Global leaders for 2015.

But Tshering’s home village of Sermathang, north of Kathmandu, is one of the rural communities which has been laid waste by the earthquake.

Tshering and a team from Childreach are now using dirt bikes and motorcycles to rescue people in the villages around Kathmandu.

He has requested that Childreach sets up an emergency fund for rural communities hit by the earthquake and has issued a desperate appeal for donations.

Paula Yarrow, London-based international programmes manager at the UK office of Childreach International, which works for the welfare of youngsters in Asia and Africa, is a former Whitley Bay High School pupil and grew up in Monkseaton.

She said: “Tshering has been incredible. It has been very emotional for him.

“His team are pulling people from rubble. He has now managed to get to Sermathang and another rural village where we work and found complete devastation.

“There is very little getting through to these remote areas.

“The weather is terrible. We do not know the full extent yet of what has happened in rural areas.

“Currently, we are focussing on getting shelter and basic supplies that are needed urgently as those left in communities have lost everything and are extremely vulnerable, but the fund is also to support the communities longer term.

“Tshering is going to be out of contact a lot over the next few days, but we are keeping in touch with him and other members of his team as often as we can.”

After making friends as a youngster with British volunteers who worked in his village, Tshering came to Tyneside from Nepal in 2002 to study Health Development Studies - the first student from the Hyolmo ethnic group in Nepal to go to a British university.

At 13 years old he had started an adult literacy programme for parents in his village.

While at Northumbria, he earned the Millennium Voluntary Award and was presented with the first Northumbria University Lord Glenamara International Scholarship, which allowed him to carry on with his studies in a Masters in Public Health in 2005.

He was supported with funding to undertake a PhD in using tele-medicine to improve health care in remote parts of Nepal by linking people to medical experts for advice.

Christian Dapp, director of fund raising for Childreach, said: “It’s particularly close to home for Dr Tshering Lama and his team who were pulling men, women and children out of the rubble, and they are helping people in any way they can.

“Childreach has always worked in the rural, mountainous regions of Nepal, and these have been hit especially hard.

“Tshering’s home village, and the village of Manikharka where we work, have been destroyed. There is obviously huge demand, so he is struggling.

“We’re a small charity. We don’t have millions of pounds in reserve when a disaster like this strikes and we need people’s help.

“Tshering and his team have worked and worked to build Childreach Nepal. Most of our participants that visited Nepal got to meet Tshering whilst they were there, and they will vouch for the fact that he is absolutely relentless in his quest to transform the lives of children across Nepal.”

(Image: Simon Hobson)

Tshering was seven when British students began making annual trips to his village to carry out voluntary work, including teaching English.

One of the student volunteers, Helena Cullen and her mother Tessa rallied their Quaker community to raise the funds for Tshering to come to Northumbria University for a degree course in health development studies.

When Tshering graduated in 2005, his father Chenga and mother Phurpa left Nepal for the first time to be at the ceremony.

Tshering was able to go on to study at Northumbria for a Masters in public health after being awarded the first Glenamara scholarship for his outstanding contribution to the community.

After we reported on his hopes to complete a PhD, a North East businessman made a substantial contribution to his study, with the university offering half the course costs.

After being awarded his PhD, Tshering said: “It has been some journey, and I have had love, trust and respect from people in Newcastle who have been so generous.

“The help I have had has made me who I am, and without it I could not be doing what I am doing now.”

Donations can be made at www.childreach.org.uk/donate or via bank transfer to: NatWest account name: Childreach International, sort code: 60-13-12, account number: 4265176. Or text TAUGHT to 70007.
</text>