<url>
http://www.firstpost.com/world/rushing-nepal-help-may-bad-idea-stay-put-donate-money-instead-2218954.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Rushing to Nepal to help may be a bad idea; stay put and donate money instead
</headline>

<text>
On 26 April, the world woke up to the devastating news of a 7.9 magnitude earthquake that rattled Nepal and left scores dead and injured in its wake.

It is understandable to feel the urge to rush to Nepal to help with relief aid.

But perhaps the wisest move right now is to stay put.

Experts and organisations from around the globe are urging well-intended but unskilled people to stay home and donate money to help.

Claire Bennett in her piece for The Guardian writes, "What Nepal needs right now is not another untrained bystander, however much her heart is hurting."

Untrained individuals only add to the chaos and to the burden of the already scare resources in the region. There is also the added risk to the lives of the people involved who are untrained and might endanger the lives of others too in such bleak conditions.

Bennett lists out some ways in which one can help while staying at home, which include, NOT donating stuff, as it is difficult to distribute second-hand things, and what one should do is to donate money to well-recognized and verified organizations, which in hand distribute what is needed through their channels.

Michael Bonocore, a photographer points out the pitfalls of rushing to disaster hit regions without any prior experience or training, citing examples from previous instance of Haiti earthquake where such efforts only hampered the rescue efforts.

"Unless you are a trained doctor, medic, or crucial aid worker, it is better to type that credit card number into a donation form as opposed to an airline checkout screen. Help empower the trained aid workers and organizations to best help the people in need, and start to plan how you can help fuel the tourism industry for the months and years to come," he requests in his blog post.

Jessica Alexander, who has 'been working in this field for almost 15 years, for both U.N. agencies and NGOs during some of the world’s most pressing humanitarian crises,' calls people rushing for help a “second disaster.”

She warns people against donating things rather than money, as such donations go unused as they’re not what people need or want. It eats up the resources and hurts the local economy by putting local people out of work who need money the most.

She emphasises on not catching the plane and takings the jobs of the locals who desperately need the money.

Another aid worker using the handle @morealtitude urged public not to volunteer to help in Nepal, reports Reuters.

In the midst of a crisis, offers of volunteers or of folks 'just wanting to help'- however well-meaning- just adds to the noise. — morealtitude (@morealtitude) April 26, 2015

If you plan to donate money, you can visit the Prime Minister's Relief Fund. The New York Times has also compiled a list of reliable organizations here.
</text>