<url>
http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/news/national/australians-flown-out-of-nepal-earthquake-to-bangkok-with-20-still-missing/story-fni0xqrc-1227329301477?nk=3eb5b039aabd404848ba5605ced46a0e
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Australians flown out of Nepal earthquake to Bangkok with 20 still missing
</headline>

<text>
A TEENAGER pulled from the rubble of buildings in Kathmandu survived by drinking water from wet clothes and eating clarified butter for five days, reports say.

Hundreds cheered as the 15-year-old, identified by police as Pemba Tamang, was pulled out of the wreckage, dazed and dusty, and carried away on a stretcher. A huge crowd cheered as Pemba emerged, dazed, blinking into the sunlight.

Pemba’s rescue is just one out of a series of incredible rescue stories, which have included a four-month-old baby discovered alive 22 hours after the quake hit, and the rescue of 28-year-old Rishi Khanal, who had spent 80 hours under concrete drinking his own urine.

Pemba had been trapped under the collapsed debris of a seven-story building in Kathmandu since Saturday, when the earthquake struck.

Nepalese rescuers, supported by an American disaster response team, had been working for hours to free him. L.B. Basnet, the police officer who crawled into a gap to reach Tamang, said he was surprisingly responsive.

media_camera Pulled from the rubble ... A US doctor attends to Pemba Tamang inside an ambulance after being rescued from a building that collapsed five days ago in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Manish Swarup

“He thanked me when I first approached him,” said Basnet. “He told me his name, his address, and I gave him some water. I assured him we were near to him.”

When Tamang was lifted out, his face was covered in dust, and medics had put an IV drop into his arm.

A brace had been placed around his neck. He appeared stunned, and his eyes blinked in the sunlight as workers hurriedly carried him away. Pemba was taken to a field hospital where he was found to have only minor cuts and bruises.

“I never thought I would make it out alive,” the teenager told AFP at the Israeli military-run facility.

Recounting the moment he was pulled from a hole at the bottom of what was once a seven-story building in Kathmandu, Pempa Tamang said that “all of the sudden, I saw light”.

The teen did not know whether he was alive or dead. “I thought I was hallucinating,” he said.

Pemba, who worked at the guesthouse as a bellboy, said he had been eating lunch next to reception when the ground started shaking.

“I tried to run but ... something fell on my head and I lost consciousness — I’ve no idea for how long,” he said.

media_camera Young survivor ... Pemba Tamang, 15, is treated at the Israeli field hospital following his rescue from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 30, 2015. Picture: AFP Photo/Menahem Kahana

Emergency worker Roman Schulze said rescuers pulled a second person, kitchen worker Krishna Devi Khadka, from the rubble. She had also been trapped for five days.

Khadka, who is in her thirties, was found buried just streets away from where Pemba had been rescued. Loud cheers erupted from the multinational team of rescuers who had worked into the night to save her.

Emergency workers from France, Norway and Israel operating with the Nepal army and using listening devices to find survivors took 10 hours to free Khadka once they had discovered her.

“She was injured but she was conscious and talking,” a Nepal army major said.

The recovery of another teenager’s body in the same area underlined how the prospects of finding further survivors of Saturday’s 7.8-magnitude quake were becoming more remote.

Libby Weiss, a spokeswoman at the Israeli field hospital, said Pemba was doing “remarkably well”.

“I don’t have any logical explanation. It is miraculous. It is a wonderful thing to see in all this destruction.”

Rescue efforts in progress

Meanwhile, two Amberley-based C-17 planes last night transported more than 100 Australians, along with citizens from New Zealand, Canada and the US, to Bangkok where they will be offered two nights accommodation before returning home or travelling on.

The number of Australians still unaccounted for in Nepal dropped dramatically yesterday down to approximately 20.

Australians at the airport told The Daily Telegraph they would attempt to return to Nepal to offer assistance after their harrowing experiences.

The news comes as two more survivors, a teenage boy and woman in her thirties, have been pulled alive from the rubble — five days after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit, killing nearly 6000.

media_camera Survivor ... Alice Forrest from Manly arrives at Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards

Manly local Alice Forrest, travelling with mum Nicolee Woods, was on a bus from Pokhara to Kathmandu when the quake struck.

The 27-year-old, who has been assisting Nepalese people since the quake, will attempt to continue her travel out of Bangkok.

“We were trekking in Pokhara and got the bus back to Kathmandu and just missed a landslide,” Ms Forrest said.

“We has to walk back for hours to get back into Kathmandu.”

The mother and daughter — who intend to continue travelling through Asia before returning to Australia — had a flight out of Nepal scheduled for Sunday but had to postpone following the aftershocks and heavy delays at the airport.



media_camera Helping the Aussies ... This van helps transport Australians, New Zealanders, Canadians and US citizens at Kathmandu International before their flight to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards

Australian Ambassador to Nepal Glenn White said most Australians were now safe and they were assisting them in getting them back to Kathmandu.

It comes as rescuers pulled two survivors from the earthquake rubble where they had been trapped for five days.

The joy interrupted a dreary and still fearful day in which thousands worried about aftershocks lined up to board free buses to their rural hometowns.

More than 70 aftershocks have been recorded in the Himalayan region since Saturday’s earthquake.

media_camera Out of Nepal ... Joel Whitesel from Canada waits to board a flight to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards

Indian seismologist JL Gautam says the 73 aftershocks recorded as of Thursday morning by India’s monitoring stations ranged from 3.2 magnitude to 6.9, the strongest occurring on Sunday.

media_camera Lucky escape ... Toni Perry from Surry Hills leaves Kathmandu International airport to board an Australian Defence Force C17 aircraft to Bangkok. Picture: Nathan Edwards

media_camera Found alive ... Krishna Devi Khadka is carried on a stretcher after being rescued from a building that collapsed in Saturday’s earthquake in Kathmandu. Picture: AP Photo/Bikram rai

Miracles DO happen! A four-month-old baby was rescued ALIVE from the rubble in #Nepal http://t.co/KAFVvx0icb pic.twitter.com/uQJlLK8R5E — Express Pictures (@Express_Pics) April 30, 2015

##

Originally published as Buried teen’s incredible survival tactics
</text>