<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/04/30/capital/health-facilities-stretched-to-their-limits/404659.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Health facilities stretched to their limits
</headline>

<text>
Apr 30, 2015-

Health facilities and health workers in the Capital are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the growing number of patients suffering serious traumatic injuries sustained in the Great Quake. A majority of the patients are from the neighbouring districts of Kathmandu, including Sindhupalchok, Nuwakot, Dhading and Rasuwa.

Officials said most of the patients have sustained head wounds, fractured bones, joint dislocations, spinal injuries and ruptured bladders.

Doctors at major hospitals inside Kathmandu Valley fear that the treatment of patients might be affected with the stock of medicines and medical kits depleting.

“The hospital is already overwhelmed by patients, while people from outside the Valley continue to surge by the day,” said Dr Swoyam Prasad Pandit, director of Bir Hospital. The existing resources and staff at Bir Hospital and the Trauma Centre can treat up to 200 trauma patients at a time. Both the facilities have been stretched to their limits.

“We have mobilised over 50 doctors and 250 medics. We are likely to run out of medicines and medical kits soon,” said Dr Pandit. “We don’t need money. Just send us working equipment and kits.”

The Trauma Centre has so far conducted 39 major operations, and since Wednesday morning, five teams have been operating on patients with serious injuries. The centre has formed three medical teams to conduct surgeries early in the morning and they will work late into the night.

Things are no better at the Maharajgunj-based Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH). Because there are no beds or spaces available in the emergency ward, quake victims are being treated in other departments, where over 300 patients are already undergoing treatment. “Our main emergency department has a capacity of 70 patients. But we have already admitted 80 patients who require serious medical attention,” said Dr Deepak Mahara, director of TUTH. The patients in TUTH are also being treated in other buildings of the hospital, including the BP Koirala Lions Centre for Ophthalmic Studies and the ENT building.

Dr Mahara said they have deployed over 500 health personnel, including doctors and nursing staff. Given the huge surge in the number of patients, the stock of medicine is running out while plasters, splints and antibiotics are almost all gone, said Dr Mahara.

The TUTH on Tuesday also released a notice stating that they were short of many medical kits, including patient gowns, masks, suture sets, OT gowns, different types of surgical gloves and dressing sets, among others. The major health centres catering to the public in Kavre and Sidhupalchok districts are also running out of supplies. Dhulikel Hospital, one of the major centres in Kavre, said the stocks of medicine, including antibiotics, bandages, gauges and injections are running out.

“We have already invested a huge amount in the treatment of people. We need immediate support from the government to get going with the task,” said Dr Rajendra Koju. He said the doctors have treated over 700 people so far, and 60 major and 200 minor surgeries have been conducted on victims from Kavre, Sindhupalchok, Sindhuli, Bhaktapur and Kathmandu.

The Ministry of Health and Population said they will soon send the required medical assistance to all these hospitals and districts, and international medical teams have already been dispatched. A 60-member Chinese medical team has been dispatched to Dhulikhel and a team from United Kingdom has been sent to Sindhupalchok.

Published: 30-04-2015 10:18
</text>