<url>
http://jerseyeveningpost.com/news/2015/04/30/nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Seven children feared dead in Nepal village where Islanders worked on charity project
</headline>

<text>
Seven children feared dead in Nepalese village where Islanders volunteered in January

Jersey Overseas Aid team plumbed taps, repaired a health centre and built a community centre

News has come through that 87 of 89 homes have been flattened by recent earthquake

Islanders have responded to disaster with several fundraisers - see below

SEVEN children are feared dead and almost every home has been destroyed in a Nepalese village where a team of Islanders worked earlier this year on a charity project.

A Jersey Overseas Aid Commission team of 12 volunteers spent three weeks in two villages in the Dandakarka region in January and February, helping to build a clean water system.

A Nepalese engineer who worked on the project this week emailed the team leader, Brian Stuttard, to tell him that it was believed seven children had died in the earthquake and the village had been devastated.

Mr Stuttard, a retired civil servant, said: 'The area where we were working has been flattened. There were 89 homes, now there are only two left standing.

'We worked with the people there, we played with the children and now the village is gone. I feel devastated and everyone in the team is really, really upset.'

The Jersey Overseas Aid team who went to Nepal: Brian Stuttard (Leader), Angela Le Sueur (Deputy Leader), Stephanie Almeida, Ania Deichsel, Maurice Dubras, Jeremy Johnson, Michael Judge, Yvonne Judge, Kate Lamy, Philip Marshall, Elizabeth Stuttard and Colin White

Advertising

His colleague on the project, Maurice Dubras, said: 'I have listened to the heart-breaking news from Dandakarka that most of the houses have collapsed by earthquake.

'We are absolutely shocked – the fact is that we spent three weeks working with members of that community, so we became close to them.

'Over that time our team, particularly the women, became particularly close to some of the children.

'When I heard the news I felt poleaxed.'

Advertising

The 7.9 magnitude earthquake, which was the biggest to hit the Himalayan nation in 80 years, has claimed at least 5,500 lives and left thousands in desperate need of food and water.

Aid agencies have said that they are overwhelmed by the scale of the disaster, which has seen hundreds of thousands of survivors flock to makeshift camps in one of Asia's poorest countries.

The project team visited the local school

The team dug trenches to take water pipes to the village

The tragedy has prompted a number of Islanders, including charity workers, photographers, restaurant owners and even amateur radio enthusiasts, to do what they can to help those affected.

The members of the Jersey Amateur Radio Society have joined an emergency network transmitting messages in and out of Nepal.

Club member Steve Huelin said that the society, which monitors radio transmissions across the world, got in contact with the network from their headquarters in an old German bunker in St Brelade.

'All power is down in Nepal, which is affecting communications, but the radio operators out there can still use batteries to power their sets,' he said.

'We have joined part of a global emergency network relaying messages in and out of Nepal. There are messages for friends, questions about missing persons and specific requests for items of aid such as food, water or medicine.

He added: 'We have also been sending messages back telling them what relief is on the way.'

Dr Sunil Kumar, an anaesthetist at the General Hospital, is also donating 50 per cent of the money from sales in his restaurant Bollywood Bytes this week to the World Food Programme, who are helping with the crisis.

Dr Kumar said: 'It felt like the right thing to do.'

Two Islanders have organised an exhibition called Namaste Nepal at Cooper's Café, Castle Quay from this Saturday until Monday 11 May.

David Moody, a keen amateur photographer, and his wife Caroline, the assistant editor of the JEP, will be selling photographs they took while visiting Nepal to raise funds for the Jersey Disaster Appeal.

'We were in France when we heard the news, and neither of us could sleep for thinking about whether there was anything we could do,' said Mrs Moody.

'We both came up with the idea of an exhibition, and both came up with the title Namaste Nepal before we had even discussed it.

'The Nepalese people are so friendly and welcoming to travellers.

David and Caroline Moody

'We met several families while we were there. Some we know are safe, others we will never know their fate.

'One girl is the 'face' on our poster (above). She is called Anouska and she was three when this photo was taken last November.

'She lives with her family in the foothills of the Annapurna Range just outside Pokhara.

'We both want to return to Nepal as soon as is realistically possible.'

The exhibition is on at Cooper's Cafe at Castle Quay, from Saturday 2 May until Monday 11 May.

The women on the project were dressed in traditional Nepalese costumes to mark a national holiday

TWELVE Islanders completed the Overseas Aid project to provide clean water to two remote villages in Nepal in January and February.

They spent three weeks working in two Gurkha villages in the Dandakharka region, a five-hour 'rocky and rough' drive from the capital, Kathmandu, up into the mountains.

Tap stands were placed outside each house in the village

The spokesman for the group, Yvonne Judge, said that the greeting when they arrived was overwhelming.

They stayed in a house where conditions were basic – openings for windows but no glazing, no heating, a single light bulb in a room, and outdoor showers, which were cold.

'But we were lucky because we had water on tap there,' Yvonne said.

This is significant because the group were there to bring clean water supplies to the villages.

Working with the Gurkha Welfare Trust and alongside local people, they worked from 8 am to 5 pm every day to dig trenches for water pipes and fill them back in.

Yvonne added that women and teenage girls had carried concrete and other equipment and materials needed for water tanks uphill, 50 kilos at a time in baskets on their heads and backs.

Before they left Jersey, the group had raised £14,500, to add to the £30,000 grant from the Overseas Aid Commission.

How the funding was to be allocated was to be decided while they were there, and this was done by meeting the village committee on a field on the hillside.

The money paid for:

Repairs to a health centre.

Electricity, internet and a computer for two schools.

A new community centre, which will have running water

Three pairs of goats for poor and disabled people in the village.

Canes for a disabled lady so that she can continue to weave baskets[/breakout]

FOR a small island with a population of 100,000 people, Jersey has a remarkable network of links with other communities, large and small, around the globe.

It is hard to go anywhere without discovering someone or something with a connection to home. Those friendships and relationships are formed in all manner of ways from business, travel and charity to family history, politics and sport.

Today we learn that a remote village with close links to Jersey has been devastated by the recent earthquake in Nepal. Seven children are feared dead.

Just a few months ago, volunteers on a Jersey Overseas Aid project helped to install a clean-water system in Dandakharka. It is not yet known whether the children they met, some of whom are pictured on the front page of today's paper, are among the victims.

It will come as no surprise to those who live in the Island that Jersey has leapt to the assistance of the people of Nepal.

The Bailiff has launched a Jersey Disaster Appeal, the Overseas Aid Commission has pledged £90,000 to the relief efforts and is working with the Gurkha Welfare Trust Jersey to raise more money. Other individuals and organisations are also doing their bit.

This is Jersey at its best. The community spirit which is such a strong force in Island life is not limited to our shores.

We must again show our generosity in support of the victims of this latest natural disaster.
</text>