<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68053521/More-than-1000-dead-as-magnitude-7-8-earthquake-hits-Nepal
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 2350 dead, frantic search for survivors
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: 2350 dead, frantic search for survivors

Getty Images Emergency workers and bystanders clear debris while searching for survivors under a collapsed temple in Basantapur Durbar Square.

Rescuers are digging with their bare hands as bodies pile up in Nepal after an earthquake devastated the heavily crowded Kathmandu valley, killing at least 2350, and triggered a deadly avalanche on Mt Everest.

Army officer Santosh Nepal led a group of rescuers that worked all night to open a passage into a collapsed building in the capital of Kathmandu. They had to use pick axes because bulldozers could not get through the ancient city's narrow streets.

"We believe there are still people trapped inside," he told Reuters, pointing at concrete debris and twisted reinforcement rods that was once a three-storey residential building.

YouTube CCTV footage has started to emerge illustrating the devastating effect of the Nepal earthquake.

Among the capital's landmarks destroyed in the earthquake was the 60-metre Dharahara Tower, built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, with a viewing balcony that had been open to visitors for the last 10 years.

A jagged stump was all that was left of the lighthouse-like structure. As bodies were pulled from the ruins, a policeman said up to 200 people had been trapped inside.







Bodies were still arriving at one hospital in Kathmandu, where police officer Sudan Shreshtha said his team had brought 166 corpses overnight.



"I am tired and exhausted, but I have to work and have the strength," Shreshtha told Reuters as an ambulance brought three more victims to the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital.



Bodies were heaped in a dark room; some covered with cloth, some not. A boy aged about seven lay, his face half missing and his stomach bloated like a football. The stench of death was overpowering.



Outside, a 30-year-old woman who had been widowed wailed: "Oh Lord, oh God, why did you take him alone? Take me along with him also."



Authorities also scrambled to provide shelter in the capital, Kathmandu, for thousands of people who spent the night outside in freezing temperatures and patchy rain, too afraid to return to their damaged homes.

People milled about in parks and streets strewn with rubble. The 7.9 magnitude quake struck at midday on Saturday at a busy time of year for the tourism-reliant country's trekking and climbing season, with an estimated 300,000 foreign tourists in the country.

REUTERS Officials say the death toll from Nepal's earthquake is skyrocketing after it sent tremors across northern India and triggered a fatal avalanche on Mt Everest. Nathan Frandino reports.

The government planned to pitch tents and turn schools and other public buildings into shelters, said Rameshwor Dangal, a home ministry official. It would also re-open roads and send helicopters to rescue people.

* Know someone in Nepal? Track them here

At least 18 people died after an avalanche swept through Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak at 8848-metres and long a magnet for adventurers, India's CNN-IBN reported. A product manager for Google was among the confirmed dead.



READ MORE:



* We feared 'building would collapse on us'



* NZ students use quake experience to help Nepalese during tour



* Everest avalanche: 'running for my life'



* Aftershocks keeping Kiwi awake in Nepal



Around 300,000 foreign tourists were estimated to be in various parts of Nepal for the spring trekking and climbing season in the Himalayas, and officials were overwhelmed by calls from concerned friends and relatives.

Mike Scott Several buildings have collapsed in Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples, after a 7.8 magnitude quake.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed the well-being of just over 100 New Zealanders in Nepal.

The High Commission was continuing to seek information about the welfare of any other New Zealanders in the areas affected but efforts were hampered by damage to communication networks.

Those in the damaged areas were being asked to follow instructions from local authorities and to register their details at safetravel.govt.nz.

Hospitals across the impoverished nation of 28 million people struggled to cope with its worst quake in 81 years. They expected a fresh influx of patients on Sunday but medical supplies were running low.

Kathmandu's Bir Hospital had received 300 to 350 patients with serious injuries through Saturday, and most of them died, said paramedic Dinesh Chaudhary. He said the hospital was procuring medicines from shops outside.

PEOPLE STILL TRAPPED

The earthquake, centred 80 km east of the second city, Pokhara, was all the more destructive for being shallow.

Rescue operations had still not begun in towns in some remote areas.

Across the city, rescuers scrabbled through destroyed buildings, among them ancient, wooden Hindu temples.

"I can see three bodies of monks trapped in the debris of a collapsed building near a monastery," Indian tourist Devyani Pant told Reuters. "We are trying to pull the bodies out and look for anyone who is trapped."

Neighbouring India, where 44 people were reported killed in the quake and its aftershocks, sent military aircraft to Nepal with medical equipment and relief teams. It also said it had dispatched 285 members of its National Disaster Response Force.

In Tibet, the death toll climbed to 17, according to a tweet from China's state news agency, Xinhua.

International aid groups readied staff to go to Nepal to help provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food, while the United States, Britain and Pakistan were among countries providing search-and-rescue experts.

More than 1,000 climbers were on Everest at the start of their season when disaster struck.

READ MORE:

* Fears for dozens of missing Australians

* Nations pledge support and aid

FAR AND WIDE

Tremors were felt as far away as New Delhi and other northern cities in India, with reports that they had lasted up to a minute.

"Massive tremors have been felt here in Delhi and several other parts of India," said a newsreader on NDTV in Delhi.

"You can see pictures of our Delhi studios, where the windows rattled and everything shook for a very long time, for a minute perhaps or longer," she said as footage showed studio ceiling camera lights shaking.

"We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal," tweeted Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The US Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 but then lowered it to 7.8.

Modi convened a high-level meeting with ministers and top officials to assess the situation. There were no preliminary reports of damage anywhere in India, Home Minister Rajnath Singh told the Press Trust of India.

Authorities closed Kathmandu's international airport and diverted flights. Across Asia perhaps 100 million people felt the quake, the USGS said.

- Stuff and Agencies
</text>