<url>
http://www.ktvb.com/story/news/2015/04/29/boise-man-living-in-nepal-recalls-terror-of-deadly-earthquake/26599051/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Boise man living in Nepal recalls deadly earthquake
</headline>

<text>
David Tomasini survived a terrifying earthquake in Nepal. (Photo: Skype)

BOISE -- A Boise man living and teaching in Nepal recalls the deadly and devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit the Himalayan region Saturday.

David Tomasini is a Timberline graduate but has spent the last three years in Nepal, teaching music at an international school.

"It's been pretty terrifying," said Tomasini.

He spoke with KTVB Wednesday from his Nepal home via Skype.

His house is damaged but still standing, but others were not so lucky. Tomasini recalls the moment when the tremors started.

"When the earthquake hit I was at lunch with a group of friends and I was inside a kitchen," said Tomasini. "Immediately food and things just flew off the counters and the shelves and we ran outside."

Along with others, he ran for cover and at times even feared for his life.

"I had those moments where I thought am I going to make it? And it lasted for what seemed like forever, and eventually the floor stopped shaking and I moved to a clear spot, and we were just like assaulted with tremor after tremor, and aftershock after aftershock," he said.

RELATED: Idahoans donate to help Nepal earthquake victims

In the days after, he slept outside under tents and blue tarps with others.

"We have all been sleeping with our shoes on because we are all concerned about our safety. Away from large structures and where things could fall on them," said Tomasini. "The earth would not stop shaking, people were screaming, it was just a lot of terror."

He finally made it to his house for the fourth night and came home to find dishes broken on the floor and belongings thrown about the house.

"There is no way you could be in my house barefoot because there is glass everywhere," he said.

And he says, there is still the fear that an aftershock could still come.

"I put a bed next to my front door so if I feel a tremor I get to run right outside."

But one thing he feels he can take comfort in now, is the Nepali people.

"Nepali people are the kindest and most respectful culture of people that you will ever meet. If you go outside people are not in a panic, there is no one looting, there is no violence," said Tomasini.

And the worry has shifted a bit to the impact of the earthquake on remote villages, because he said there is no electricity and no way for people to communicate in those rural areas.

"It would be like in Idaho if the city of Stanley just disappeared overnight," he explained.

During this tough time, Tomasini said he is reminded of home.

"The one cool thing about being in Idaho is I feel like I know how to have a sense of community and a sense of respect or your neighbors, and I feel and sense that here in Nepal with the Nepali people."

Tomasini is also hoping that people will reach out to those living in Idaho who are from Nepal and give their respects and well wishes and remember to donate to the cause.
</text>