<url>
http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/gatineau-red-cross-worker-drops-everything-to-build-red-cross-field-hospital-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Gatineau Red Cross worker drops everything to build field hospital in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
It will be Mike Koch’s job to land in Nepal, take a portable hospital and all its equipment out of boxes, and assemble it quickly for the can’t-wait job of delivering babies.

Koch (it’s pronounced Coke) is a Gatineau contractor who volunteers over and over to drop everything and fly off to disaster zones with the Canadian Red Cross. This has taken him to Haiti four times in 2010-2011, to South Sudan, to the Philippines, and now to the earthquake zone in Nepal.

The Canadians were in Dubai late Thursday, waiting for clearance to fly to Nepal. They still don’t know what site they will be assigned. But they do know their job is going to be largely obstetrics.

Koch, 54, will be one of the technicians assembling tents, setting up electrical generators, and running the water sanitation for a field hospital the Red Cross will use for roughly four months.

It’s a good feeling to do this work, he says.

“I feel the need to help people in any situation. I’m not going to say ‘less fortunate than I am’ because I don’t think these people I’m going to help are less fortunate. I think there’s just a need.

“When we see our patients, who have come in and spent some time with us and then are able to walk out with their family … that is a reward in itself. It’s very satisfying to see people leave the hospital after they have come in.”

It’s sometimes hard for Canadians to picture what disaster relief looks like, but in this case it takes the form of very unusual tents.

There are about 20 of them, each six by 15 metres, that combine into a modular hospital. That means the approximately 20 medical staff can decide where on the site it wants each tent to make the work flow efficiently. Koch and other technicians will assemble the pieces.

Each tent has its own function: Operating room, delivery room, waiting area, triage, storage, wards, kitchen, laboratory, sleeping quarters and so on.

“It’s basically like your hospital at home,” Koch said. “It’s just basically in tents. You get the same areas, the same configurations, but we do it with tents.”

“It’s essentially a mother and newborn child health focus,” said Luc Alary, an emergency response unit officer with the Red Cross said. “Now whether it gets assembled in that configuration is yet to be determined … We have a lot of flexibility built into the kit.” (Alary will be doing technician work too.)

They can even split their hospital into two sites.

The tents are insulated and attached to aluminum frames, more like a building than a cloth structure. The material is like multiple layers of heavy canvas, but waterproof and fire resistant. It doesn’t flap in the wind. There’s heating and air conditioning.

“These are actual structures,” he said.

Koch has to keep the medical equipment in good condition too. At the end of the mission the Red Cross will re-pack it in the original boxes and donate it to Nepal, and they want to make sure it’s in working order.

Six of their tents are designed to inflate in a hurry. These include operating rooms, with the goal of being ready for surgery two to three hours after the team arrives, “so we need to have water and the electrical system operating, and these tents up. It’s quite a challenge.

“It’s kind of like a half-moon in shape and it’s held up by the high-pressure air.”

Machinery is kept simple.

“We don’t have as many machines as you would have in an operating room back home. We have the basic instruments and tools that are needed for an emergency situation.

“The operating theatre’s table is designed to be mobile so it goes together very quickly.” Doctors are trained in advance to assemble the table while technicians like Koch and Alary are working on the electrical system and water.

Koch has an extra mission this time. His seven-year-old granddaughter brought him a stuffed bear to deliver to a child in Nepal. He’s going to bring home a photo of that event.

“So that’s my motivating factor in this one.”

tspears@ottawacitizen.com

twitter.com/TomSpears1
</text>