<url>
http://www.al.com/living/index.ssf/2015/04/helping_nepal_from_alabama.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
How to help in Nepal from Alabama - 5 tips to protect your gifts
</headline>

<text>
First comes the disaster - in this case the earthquake in Nepal -- next the awful confirmation of destruction via news reports that build in horror as journalists work their way in to document conditions -- and then the appeals for money. Like seismic waves, the events that are echoing around the world after the April 25, 2015, earthquake in the Himalayas are following the sequence too well known in this age of natural disaster.

And next? Expect news of how some of the funds being donated to help people in terrible circumstances never made it to it target project or became part of some ineffectual relief attempt by an ill-prepared organization. The waste of natural destruction is too often followed by the waste of people's best impulses - to help those in need.

Can you help from Alabama? Yes, say people who evaluate charities - but do your homework first.

"The general message always is let the donor beware, says Stuart Obermann, president and CEO of the Community Foundation of Huntsville-Madison County, a position that requires that he regularly evaluate charities. "Many of the appeals coming to your phone or in-box may be many legitimate organizations using social media fairly aggressively to raise money for Nepal, but unfortunately, some are also nefarious people just trying to line their own pockets."

And even with the organizations that are already multi-national, it's important to make sure they are already working in Nepal, Obermann said.

So how can the generous kid in Selma or the church group in Madison or the private foundation in Montgomery help the more than 1.4 million people who need water, food, shelter and medical care right now in Nepal? Even Facebook is getting into the action - many users who checked their news feed today found a link at the top of the page suggesting they donate $2 to the International Medical Corps. Is that a good one? Charity Navigator gives that organization three out of four stars, a very good, but not stellar ranking -- although the star rating is not the entire story, Obermann said.

Here are some tips on truly helping people in Nepal. This list is condensed from Obermann's recommendations and from tips from other experts on charity:

Go with the big guys, the charities you've heard of. They'll be the ones with information and third-party rankings most easily accessed. Incidentally, even some of the "big guys," like Doctors without Borders, one of the most-respected medical emergency aid organizations in the world, are being transparent about the fact that, this week, they aren't sure how much they can do and, at this time, will accept no donations that are limited to use only in Nepal. See their statement at their website, DoctorswithoutBorders.org. Now is not the time to begin supporting some philanthropic start-up. If it's a neighborhood effort, get the group to agree on a well-known organization as the recipient of your efforts. Go through your regular philanthropic channels. If you're a member of a faith or civic organization, like Rotary International, with international workers already in place around the world, giving through those channels is an excellent way to make sure your money is used in a way you know is effective. This is the approach that Whitesburg Baptist Church in Huntsville will use, says Pastor John Crocker, the minister for missions. Donations from Whitesburg will be directed to the International Mission Board -- now headed by Pastor David Platt, formerly of Birmingham -- and the Baptist Global Response, which is currently assessing how to help. News from Nepal is already circulating through other church networks around the state, such as the Archdiocese of Mobile's link to the latest Catholic News Service reports. Give directly, not through links sent via emails or websites or telephone appeals. Even if the appeal apparently comes from an organization whose name you trust, it's best to go directly to that organization's website or mailbox to make your gift. "Just make sure you're giving to someone who actually is the Red Cross or UNICEF," Obermann said. "Unfortunately we saw after 9/11 cases where someone used the good name of a good charity to steal dollars from donors." Give specifically. "You'll want to know what mission of the charity is," Obermann said. "If a charity just says 'Nepal Relief,' you probably need to know more than that. Any legitimate charity would have well-established connections and information about what it is doing with the money." Give until it hurts. Or until it helps - or both. Although the earthquake has crumbled the lives and livelihoods of some 1.4 million people and affected at least 8 million more, other emergencies worldwide have not abated. Try to give a little extra, not just at your usual levels. "I personally don't buy the theory that if I support Nepal, then cancer, say, or some other cause I usually support will not get my money," Obermann said. "Maybe some people are like that and have a budgeted amount of dollars to give, but most, I think, will give extra. There is such a sense of urgency - and I don't seriously doubt any organization working in Nepal is going to raise more money than they'll need."

InterAction, an alliance of non-governmental aid organizations working around the world has assembled a handy roster of trusted organizations that already had a presence in Nepal and would, therefore, be the best place to start.

Check out your options, find a respected organization that matches your interests - and then write an earth-shaking check. Chances are good it will help someone who needs it a lot more than you do.
</text>