<url>
http://www.wdrb.com/story/28945614/louisville-area-group-nepal-bound-for-earthquake-relief
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Louisville-area group Nepal-bound for Earthquake relief - WDRB 41 Louisville News
</headline>

<text>
Two black males and some type of rifle were involved in the incident. Both men are now in custody.

Two black males and some type of rifle were involved in the incident. Both men are now in custody.

2 people in custody after reports of shots fired near JCPS school

2 people in custody after reports of shots fired near JCPS school

Officials say 36-year-old Curtis Combs of Somerset told them he wanted to be famous.

Officials say 36-year-old Curtis Combs of Somerset told them he wanted to be famous.

Google Fiber, the superfast Internet service that city officials have long craved, is now available to some homes in Portland, Newburg and the Strathmoor area of the Highlands.

Google Fiber, the superfast Internet service that city officials have long craved, is now available to some homes in Portland, Newburg and the Strathmoor area of the Highlands.

Google Fiber construction crews dug a 'micro-trench' in the roads in the Strathmoor area of the Highlands in August. (WDRB photo)

Google Fiber construction crews dug a 'micro-trench' in the roads in the Strathmoor area of the Highlands in August. (WDRB photo)

The U of L board of trustees fired athletic director Tom Jurich Wednesday, two days after the school dismissed basketball coach Rick Pitino.

The U of L board of trustees fired athletic director Tom Jurich Wednesday, two days after the school dismissed basketball coach Rick Pitino.

The board of trustees voted for a new direction at the University of Louisville Wednesday.

The board of trustees voted for a new direction at the University of Louisville Wednesday.

BOZICH | Louisville board shows the name on front of jersey matters

BOZICH | Louisville board shows the name on front of jersey matters

A bar that's been a downtown Louisville fixture and a hit with Derby-goers and celebrities for decades is closing its doors.

A bar that's been a downtown Louisville fixture and a hit with Derby-goers and celebrities for decades is closing its doors.

Louisville's lack of explanation for the firing of Tom Jurich isn't going to do much to unite its fan base.

Louisville's lack of explanation for the firing of Tom Jurich isn't going to do much to unite its fan base.

A Jeffersonville High School student has been charged with molesting two 6-year-old girls at an elementary school where he was working as a teacher's assistant.

A Jeffersonville High School student has been charged with molesting two 6-year-old girls at an elementary school where he was working as a teacher's assistant.

Bardstown resident and pastor Larry Meade shops for supplies to take to Nepal at Cabela's. He said people there needs tarps and tents.

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Bardstown resident and pastor Larry Meade has been doing mission work in and around Nepal for 25 years.

"We have a lot of friends there and know a lot of people that this whole earthquake has affected,” Meade told WDRB.

Saturday's earthquake has reportedly killed more than 5,000 people, has displaced about 2.8 million and more than 70,000 homes are believed to have been destroyed.

"It's just devastating and just makes your heart break and makes tears come to your eyes,” said Meade.

Meade, along with a team of five others, will leave Louisville on Monday and arrive in Nepal mid-week.

He says their goal is to make sure those who lived through the earthquake have what they need to survive.

"One of the real needs they've told me is they need tarps that they can stretch out just to get some shelter and tents,” he said.

Meade will spend the next few days gathering supplies.

He was able to get discounted tents and food from Cabela's.

He says they'll take whatever they can fit on the flight.

But mentally preparing for the trip, Meade says, won't be easy.

"I know when I get there, it's probably going to be really difficult."

On trips in the past, they've been able to stay with residents but he isn't sure what travel accommodations will be like this time.

"With all the houses destroyed, I don't know now,” he said.

The team will stay in Nepal for two weeks. While there, they'll rely on their feet to get around.

“To get to this one village, it will take us at least a day and a half just to get there,” he explained.

Meade has a long journey ahead but anticipates it to be one of the most rewarding yet.

"We're just trying to make a difference, what little we can,” Meade told WDRB.

If you can donate tents, tarps or money, you can drop it off at the Evangel World Prayer Center in Louisville.

Or mail a check:

Evangel Missions

6900 Billtown Rd

Louisville, Ky

40299

Attn: Nepal

Or you can donate online here and here.

Copyright 2015 WDRB News. All rights reserved.
</text>