<url>
http://thetimes-tribune.com/news/nepalese-community-holds-vigil-for-quake-victims-1.1872964
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese community holds vigil for quake victims
</headline>

<text>
Article Tools Font size – + Share This

Members of the Nepalese community and Bhutanese refugees from Nepal gather at Lackawanna County Courthouse Square to march and pray during a candlelight vigil for the earthquake victims of Nepal in Scranton, Pa on Wednesday, April 29, 2015. The magnitude 7.8 earthquake that shook Nepal has claimed over 5,200 lives. Jake Danna Stevens / Staff Photographer JAKE DANNA STEVENS / STAFF PHOTOGRAPHER Members of the Nepalese community and Bhutanese refugees gather at Lackawanna County Courthouse Square to march and pray during a candlelight vigil for the earthquake victims of Nepal on Wednesday. Image Gallery for Lightbox link Lightbox link Lightbox link

As a vigil was being held at Courthouse Square to pray for the victims of the recent devastating earthquake in Nepal, the Rev. Kristian Bjornstad addressed the Hill Section Neighborhood Association about the growing population of Nepalese refugees in the city.

“They are very thankful for everything they have because it’s way better than what they’re coming from,” the Rev. Bjornstad, pastor of Peace Lutheran Church in North Scranton, said during Wednesday’s association meeting.

The ethnic Nepalese community has gone from a few in 2009 to more than 1,600 now living in Scranton. Many members of the local population previously lived in refugee camps in Nepal, Some younger refugees were born in the camps with no running water or electricity. In 2009, Catholic Social Services of the Diocese of Scranton began resettling the refugees under a contract with the U.S. State Department. As of last year, 75,000 Nepali-Bhutanese refugees had resettled in the United States, according to the International Organization for Migration. Many have succeeded in Scranton, buying homes and finding jobs.

The Rev. Bjornstad works with a group of refugees weekly to help them “be better citizens of our community.”

“I share with them how it is that we live here and how we can be a better community and support each other,” he said.

Some of the older refugees he works with “have never, even been educated in their own country.” The Rev. Bjornstad is teaching them simple tasks, like how to call 911.

He also warned that some might take advantage of the Nepalese people because of their previous experience with governments.

“If they’re in those rental properties and they don’t have electricity, they’ll just put on an extra coat,” he said. “They don’t know the system.”

Also at Wednesday’s Hill Section meeting, local Relator Adam Guiffrida and attorney Jim Mulligan addressed costly rental ordinance fees in the city, saying it deters landlords from registering their properties.

Contact the writer:

kbolus@timesshamrock.com

@kbolusTT on Twitter

The Diocese of Scranton has organized a collection for Nepal earthquake victims.

Bishop Joseph C. Bambera is asking parishioners to donate during local Masses this weekend on Saturday, May 2, and Sunday, May 3, to support the efforts of Catholic Relief Services, the agency addressing immediate emergency needs for necessities including: water, food, shelter and medical care and long-term needs to rebuild the communities in the regions hit with widespread destruction by the devastating earthquake that Nepal on April 24.
</text>