<url>
http://www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/ct-sta-stuck-in-nepal-palos-st-0430-20150429-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Palos Hills native trapped in mountains in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A 34-year-old Palos Hills native has been trapped in the mountains of Nepal since a weekend earthquake that has killed thousands, family members said Wednesday.

Corey Ascolani and 26 fellow hikers became trapped in a valley in Langtang National Park, roughly 90 miles north of Nepal's capital of Kathmandu. A 7.8-magnitute earthquake hit Nepal Saturday, triggering massive landslides that now block the trails with debris making the only way out by helicopter.

Because of messages via a satellite phone, Corey's brother, Damon Ascolani, said he can pinpoint the exact location where the hikers are waiting.

"It's been five days since the earthquake hit, and it's cold up there and they are running out of food,"said Damon Ascolani, of Lemont.

Jeff Rathke, State Department acting deputy spokesperson, said the embassy in Kathmandu is working around the clock with Nepal officials as well as the international community to account for U.S. citizens and assist with disaster response efforts.

Corey Ascolani and childhood friend Paul Franklin, of Plainfield, were planning to hike Mount Everest in September. Corey Ascolani, who has been teaching in Spain for the last few years, made the trip to Nepal as part of a scouting effort.

The two had been messaging frequently via Facebook until Friday when Corey Ascolani planned to hike in the mountains in Langtang National Park, a 660-square-mile natural area.

The last message the 1998 Stagg High School graduate sent Franklin on Friday was a picture of a map showing the trail he would be hiking. When he heard about the earthquake the next day, Franklin was shocked.

"My immediate thoughts went to him," Franklin said.

Corey Ascolani's mother, Christine Bregar, learned of her son's situation when she received an ambiguous text message Tuesday.

"I think everybody calls their mom first," said Bregar, who lives in central Illinois.

Initially, she didn't know what to make of the message, "Mom have U contacted the US Embassy? We R OK. Love ya."

"I was afraid someone was pranking me. My heart was breaking anyway," Bregar said.

She responded with questions, and the reply was, "OK. It's your favorite Corey."

Bregar knew instantly the message was no prank. "He always signs his emails with 'Your favorite son' as a joke,'" she said.

The last message the family received was cut off at the end : "Its corey. Stuck in mountain,Call US embasy,Need More preswure for evac. We r 27. This sat pho."

While elated to know her son is safe for now, she is focused on his rescue. She has reached out to families of missing hikers across the United States through social media for support as well as information.

"If all the other people fall apart, I am ready to step in," she said. "Mostly right now it's a waiting game...and see what we can do to facilitate his return."

Family members have reached out to U.S. Embassy in Nepal, the U.S. Department of State and Congressman Dan Lipinski, D-Western Springs. Lipinski's office could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

The family has inquired about hiring a helicopter to rescue him, but a helicopter is not immediately available, the brother said. Helicopters so far have rescued more than 200 foreign trekkers and local villagers stranded in the Langtang area, according to the State Department. On Wednesday, members of USAID's Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) were focusing on the city of Bhaktapur, east of Kathmandu.

Time is a factor because the satellite phone, which was left behind by a hiker who was rescued, could lose battery life at any moment. There are other concerns, too.

"Even a massive avalanche can wipe them out instantly," Damon Ascolani said.

subaker@tribpub.com
</text>