<url>
http://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/at-least-71-killed-as-devastating-79magnitude-earthquake-strikes-kathmandu-in-nepal-10203571.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: More than 700 killed after catastrophic earthquake in Kathmandu rocks region
</headline>

<text>
A devastating earthquake which struck in Nepal today has killed more 700 people and the death toll is almost certain to rise.

The powerful quake measuring 7.8 magnitude hit the capital Kathmandu and the densely-populated surrounding areas just before noon local time.

Witnesses said people were running through the streets in panic while rescuers have been frantically searching for survivors amid the rubble.

Several buildings have collapsed including centuries-old temples in the ancient Old Kathmandu district.

Nepalese police now say at least 688 are confirmed dead in the country. At least 718 have perished in total after another 20 were killed in India, six in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.

A 6.6 magnitude aftershock hit about 60 minutes after the original quake and smaller aftershocks continued to jolt the region for hours.

Pushpa Das, a labourer, ran from the house when the first quake struck but could not escape a collapsing wall that injured his arm.

"It was very scary. The earth was moving ... I am waiting for treatment but the (hospital) staff is overwhelmed." he said.

The quake also shook several cities in northern India and Bangladesh and tremors were felt as far afield as Lahore in Pakistan and Lhasa in Tibet, which is 340 miles away.

An avalanche swept the face of Mount Everest as at least 30 people were injured on the mountain, which sits on the border of Nepal and Tibet.

Among the destroyed buildings was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a Unesco-recognised historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.

The epicentre of the quake was about 50 miles north-west of Kathmandu.

National radio warned people to stay outdoors and maintain calm because more aftershocks were feared.

Dozens of people were gathered in the car park of Kathmandu's Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses had been spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some patients wearing hospital pyjamas, while doctors and nurses were treating people.

Doctors and nurses had hooked up some patients to IV drops in the car park or were giving people oxygen.

The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people and the quality of buildings is often poor.

A Swedish woman, Jenny Adhikari, who lives in Nepal, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that she was riding a bus in the town of Melamchi when the earth began to move.

"A huge stone crashed only about 20 metres from the bus," she was quoted as saying.

"All the houses around me have tumbled down. I think there are lot of people who have died," she told the newspaper by telephone. Melamchi is about 30 miles north-east of Kathmandu.

The US Geological Survey revised the magnitude from 7.5 to 7.9 and said the quake hit at 11.56am local time (6.11am GMT) at Lamjung.

A magnitude seven quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an eight magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage.

The sustained quake was also felt in India's capital of New Delhi. AP reporters in Indian cities of Lucknow in the north and Patna in the east also reported strong tremors.

India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi called a meeting of top government officials to review the damage.

Nepal suffered its worst recorded earthquake in 1934, which measured eight and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.
</text>