<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/3am/celebrity-news/emotional-amanda-holden-speaks-stranded-5607985
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Emotional Amanda Holden speaks to stranded sister Debbie on This Morning following Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Get celebs updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

An emotional Amanda Holden spoke to her sister live on This Morning as she remained in Nepal following last week's devastating earthquake.

The TV star's sister Debbie was caught up in the huge 7.8 magnitude disaster, which has killed more than 5,000 people since striking the country on Saturday.

This Morning host Amanda took a deep breath as she tried to connect with her sibling live on air.

On Monday she issued a desperate appeal and admitted to frantically trying to find ways to get her sister home after she got trapped on Mount Everest following the earthquake.

(Image: PA)

Amanda explained how she spoke to scuba diving instructor Debbie - who lives in Thailand - for the first time yesterday to ensure she did not get too emotional while interviewing her live on the show.

After eventually getting through, Amanda looked relieved as Debbie spoke about how she was waiting to travel to Kathmandu so she could catch a flight home.

Debbie explained: "It's a very cut off region there's no transport.

"...We've walked all the way from more or less base camp.

"We have been waiting outside the airline office which is still closed. Hopefully we will he able to get a small plane to Kathmandu.

(Image: Sky News)

"We were waiting up in the mountains until we had definite flight possibilites. That's why we've decided to move back down."

Explaining the difficulties in travelling, she said: "We had another after-shock this morning and it has been quite a tricky walk back down."

Actress Joanna Lumley also appeared on the show where she appealed to the British public to continue making donations to aid with the rescue efforts.

She said: "The British public have responded quite fantastically to the appeal. What we have to do...the rebuilding of this country is going to be massive. It's such a poor country that these building fells down because they're not fit for purpose."

(Image: Getty Images)

Amanda issued a desperate appeal on Sky News on Monday before she had heard from Debbie.

She said: "I don't think we're going to see her for a long time, I'm just dying to hear her voice to be honest with you."

Many people have been sleeping in the open after the quake - the United Nations has said 600,000 houses were destroyed or damaged.

It has said eight million people have been affected, with at least two million in need of tents, water, food and medicines over the next three months.
</text>