<url>
http://www.sunderlandecho.com/news/local/all-news/sunderland-man-back-on-home-soil-from-nepal-1-7236527
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
WATCH: Pregnant Sunderland mum reunited with husband after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A husband and wife from Sunderland were reunited after he returned from earthquake-hit Nepal and landed with more than 100 other Britons back on home soil.

The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport, Essex.

Among those on board the Department for International Development (DfID) chartered Boeing 767 - which flew aid out to Nepal on Sunday - were children and the elderly and people chosen as a priority because of health conditions.

Some spoke of their lucky escapes and said they had seen many people, mainly locals, who had suffered far worse.

Among those reunited were husband and wife Graeme and Holly Jobes, from Sunderland.

Mrs Jobes is seven-months pregnant and said she was delighted to have her husband back.

Hollie Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after she and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.

“I’ve been worried sick - he described running down the streets and buildings falling on people around him,” she said.

“He’s got three children at home and another one on the way and we were just desperate to get him home.”

Mr Jobes said: “It was worse for her sitting at home worrying than it was for me

“We’ve been well looked after and we can’t fault the aid effort and hospitality of theNepalese people.

Graeme Jobes from Sunderland at London's Stansted Airport after he and other British nationals were evacuated from Nepal.

“But I’m looking forward to some family time now.”

The youngest passenger was a four-month-old baby while the oldest are thought to have been in their 60s.

Earlier Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed the first British fatality, while officials are “urgently investigating” reports that another Briton has been killed at Mount Everest base camp.

Some 300 British citizens have been housed in the embassy in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday, claiming more than 5,000 lives.

A local crisis counseillor comforts a distraught woman wearing a I Love Nepal t-shirt at London Stansted Airport after they were evacuated from Nepal following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on April 25 killing over 5,000 people. PRESS ASSOCIATION Photo. Picture date: Thursday April 30, 2015. Around 120 British people were evacuated from quake-hit Nepal on the return journey of a UK aid flight. See PA story QUAKE Nepal. Photo credit should read: Niklas Allen / PA Wire.

The flight left Kathmandu and stopped in Dubai on the way home.

Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.

A DfID spokesman said there were thought to be between 500 and 1,000 Britons inNepal. Most are safe but some have been unable to make contact with loved ones because of the collapse of communications infrastructure.

Mr Hammond earlier said hundreds of Britons had now been accounted for but the situation remained “extremely challenging” because of widespread infrastructure damage caused by the earthquake, landslides and avalanches.

Search and rescue teams, medics and armed services from the UK are on the ground helping those in need, he added.

Mr Hammond said: “Our teams are working closely with the Nepalese army and authorities to locate British nationals in remote areas and get them to safety.

The plane carrying Britons who were stranded in Nepal after it landed at Stansted Airport (Ben Kendall/PA)

“We know that this is an agonising time for those who are waiting for news of loved ones.

“But the scale of the disaster and the limited communications means that it may be some time before we can account for everyone. Many are likely to be in a place of safety but not able to communicate easily.”

Some £19 million had been donated to the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) NepalEarthquake Appeal just a day after it was launched, while Britain is preparing to send RAF Chinook helicopters to Nepal to help with the relief effort.

More than 5,000 people have been killed in the tragedy, but Nepal’s prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could eventually rise to more than 10,000.

Eight million people have been affected by the disaster which has wiped out entire villages, according to the United Nations.
</text>