<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11572877/Miracle-rescue-of-children-from-rubble-days-after-Nepal-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Miracle rescue of children and adults from rubble days after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Rescue workers pulled a teenage boy from the rubble of a Kathmandu hotel on Thursday, offering a rare glimmer of hope five days after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed thousands of people in Nepal .

Pemba Lama, 15, had been trapped under debris since the disaster brought the building it crashing down just before noon last Saturday.

“There were times when I thought I was dead and then I would wake up again to find myself beneath the rubble,” the teenager told the Los Angeles Times after being rescued.

Sakhi Dagan, a doctor who was treating Mr Lama at an Israeli-run field hospital, told the newspaper: “This is nothing short of a miracle to find him alive after five days.”

There were reports on Thursday night of a second survivor, a woman, also being pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu .

A 23-year-old maid, Krishna Devi Khadka, was found alive lying along with the bodies of three other people, police said. Rescue efforts lasted all through the night to save Ms Khadka.

Krishna Devi Khadka is carried on a stretcher after being rescued from a building that collapsed in Saturday’s earthquake in Kathmandu (Bikram Rai/AP)

Roman Schulze, an emergency worker, told AFP news agency that it took rescuers 10 hours to pull the woman to safety.

The agency added that the rescue team - which included Nepalese soldiers and experts from France, Norway and Israel - worked all through the night.

"She was injured but she was conscious and talking," a Nepal army major told AFP.

"She has been sent to a military hospital. It is as though she had been born again."

Details of another “miracle” rescue also emerged on Thursday – that of a four-month-old baby girl plucked from the wreckage of a building in Bhaktapur, just east of Nepal’s capital, the day after the earthquake.

Four-month-old baby boy Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese Army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur (Amul Thapa/AP)

“When I saw the baby alive all my sorrow went. Everyone was clapping. It gave me energy and made me smile in spite of lots of pain hidden inside me,” Amul Thapa, a Nepali photojournalist who caught the baby’s rescue on camera, told Associated Press.

Dambar Karki, a 47-year-old father-of-two, was one of those victims. The shopkeeper was buried when the six-floor hotel where he owned a clothing store pancaked during the earthquake.

For at least 24 hours after the building crumbled Mr Karki remained alive, pinned down under tons of reinforced concrete and crying out for help.

Neighbours said they could hear his voice long after the disaster; muffled shouts that faded to an occasional whimper as time passed by. By Sunday afternoon, when a team of Chinese rescue workers arrived to hunt for survivors, the cries had faded away.

“They came and they checked and they told us he was not alive and they went away,” Janak Karki, the victim’s 19-year-old son, told The Telegraph.

Mr Karki was eventually pulled from the rubble by a group of Nepali policemen who had spent more than eight hours digging.

His weeping wife broke down as she saw a black body bag containing his corpse lying in front of the hotel.

“If I had known this would happen,” she screamed, before her voice trailed off.

“With time, as more districts are accessed these numbers will go up,” said Kent Page, an emergency communications official from Unicef.
</text>