<url>
http://mashable.com/2015/04/30/nepal-earthquake-aid-aftershocks/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Aftershocks rattle Nepal as poor weather hampers quake aid efforts
</headline>

<text>
Under a steady morning drizzle, hundreds of people lined up Thursday in Kathmandu hoping to board free government-provided buses to rural parts of the quake-hit country as food aid began to reach remote villages near the epicenter.

See also: Footage shows the moment the devastating quake shatters Nepal

Tens of thousands of people have left the capital since Monday to check on relatives in rural areas or simply to get away from the aftershocks that have rattled the city since Saturday's magnitude-7.8 quake. The disaster has killed more than 5,500 people and rendered thousands more homeless.

"I have to get home. It has already been so many days," said Shanti Kumari, with her 7-year-old daughter, who was desperate to check on relatives in her home village in eastern Nepal. "I want to get at least a night of peace."

Five days after the quake, tent cities in Kathmandu had thinned out, as overnight rainfall persuaded many people to return to their homes, even if they were damaged by the quake. The streets of the capital were slick with rain Thursday morning, the potholes were filled with water.

#NepalEarthquake update: Death toll rose to 5,491 and 11,440 people have been injured as of 8.30 am today, according to Nepal Police. #Nepal — Siromani Dhungana (@siromanid) April 30, 2015

While residents remained on edge, life in the capital was slowly returning to the way it had been before the quake. Small snack shops were open. At a leather goods shop, a merchant brushed dust from a jacket on display. A man laid out carpets and rugs beneath an awning at a handicrafts store. Foreigners stood in line at a cellphone store.

"It's getting back to normal, but we're still feeling aftershocks. It still doesn't feel safe," said Prabhu Dutta, a 27-year-old banker from Kathmandu. He said he felt four aftershocks in the morning, including one that rattled the sliding glass doors of the bookshelf in his bedroom —"My morning wakeup notice," he said.

Dutta has been sleeping in his home, which has some cracks in the wall, for two nights, but the dozens of small aftershocks that he has felt since Saturday's huge quake make him uneasy. "I am worried about whether they will continue for a long time or whether it will calm down."

He said some people are returning to work, including at his bank, "but we can't concentrate. We roam around the office. We only have one topic of conversation: the earthquake."

A Nepalese woman protects her child from rain as she waits for transport to go to her home town. Image: Manish Swarup/Associated Press

Many people in Kathmandu are going to the country fearing that a big aftershock is coming, he said. "They are afraid; everyone is afraid because the earthquakes haven't stopped fully."

On Wednesday, helicopters finally brought food, temporary shelter and other aid to villages northwest of Kathmandu in the mountainous Gorkha District near the epicenter. Entire clusters of homes there were reduced to piles of stone and splintered wood. Women greeted the delivery with repeated cries of "We are hungry!"

Meanwhile, at least 210 foreign trekkers and residents stranded in the Langtang area north of Kathmandu had been rescued, government administrator Gautam Rimal said. The area, which borders Tibet, is popular with tourists.

The U.N. World Food Program warned that it will take time for food and other supplies to reach more remote communities that have been cut off by landslides.

"More helicopters, more personnel and certainly more relief supplies, including medical teams, shelter, tents, water and sanitation and food, are obviously needed," said the program's Geoff Pinnock, who was coordinating the flights.

Police said the official death toll in Nepal had reached 5,489 as of late Wednesday. That figure did not include the 19 people killed at Mount Everest — five foreign climbers and 14 Nepalese Sherpa guides — when the quake unleashed an avalanche at base camp.

In Kathmandu, crowds cheered Thursday as a teenage boy was pulled, dazed and dusty, from the wreckage of a seven-story building that collapsed around him five days ago when the enormous earthquake shook.

Incredible, this boy is conscious, talking to doctors after 120 hours in the rubble pic.twitter.com/vl02Pj4Tp2 — Yogita Limaye (@yogital) April 30, 2015

The teen was carried out in a stretcher. His face was covered in dust, and medics had put an IV drop into his arm. A blue brace had been placed around his neck. He appeared stunned, and his eyes blinked in the sunlight.

15 yr-old survived for 120 hrs under the rubble because an air pocket was created around him #NepalEarthquake — Sanjoy Majumder (@BBCSanjoyM) April 30, 2015

An American disaster response team had been working for a few hours to try to free the trapped boy.

"He's not too far down, but the floors have collapsed and he'd pancaked between them," Andrew Olvera, who is heading the team from the U.S. Agency for International Development, said shortly before the boy was freed.

Only twisted ropes of steel rebar was all that was holding huge concrete slabs from falling onto the scene. Two concrete floors were hanging down in front like curtains.

"The whole operation is dangerous," he said. "But its risk versus gain. To save a human life, we'll risk almost anything."
</text>