<url>
http://www.southcoastregister.com.au/story/3048231/an-earth-shattering-phone-call/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
An earth-shattering phone call
</headline>

<text>
NOWRA-BASED Nepalese woman Darpana Shrestha was on the phone to relatives back home when the earthquake struck.

WAITING FOR NEWS: Nowra couple Darpana and Dhiraj Shrestha read the latest news from Nepal on their laptop.

NOWRA-BASED Nepalese woman Darpana Shrestha was on the phone to relatives back home when the earthquake struck.



Mrs Shrestha was talking to her mother in Dharan in the plains region, about seven hours from Kathmandu and an hour from her husband Dhiraj’s hometown of Biratnager.

“She just said everything is starting to shake,” Mrs Shrestha said.

“She said you can see everything moving.

“Even the houses were moving. It lasted for about a minute.

“It was pretty scary to hear this sort of thing when you are so far away.

“But thankfully their home didn’t suffer any damage and none of our family or friends were injured.”

She said her parents, brother and sister-in-law and nephew, who also live in the same town, are OK.

Mr Shrestha’s parents in Biratnager about six-and-half hours’ drive from the capital were also safe, while two of his aunts in Kathmandu were uninjured but now joined many in the tent city which has sprung up.

“They said there has been so much destruction,” he said.

“They are living outside. Living in tents. Cooking outside. They were too scared to go back into their homes.

“They are still scared.

“My mother said the quake struck so quickly.

“She said they were standing in the middle of the doorway just praying to God to help them.”

He said while they were able to get spasmodic communications with their home towns, contacting Kath-mandu had taken longer.

“We just tried to get through on the telephone whenever we could. We get news over the internet, watching news reports from CNN, BBC or getting news off Facebook,” he said.

“News 24 here has been great.”

Despite the area still suffering aftershocks, he said disease would now be the big concern.

““There are dead bodies still in the rubble and on the streets,” he said.

“They aren’t identified and not buried. With shortages of food and water this could cause a major problem.”

While the focus has been on the capital, they said many of the outlying villages in the hilly regions were still waiting for help.

“Because often the only way in is by road and many were destroyed in the quake they are still waiting for help,” he said.

“The only way to get things to them is by helicopter.”

“They need things like food, water, tents – the basics,” Mrs Shrestha said.

“Everything seems to be going to Kathmandu, there are many other regions that need the help as well.”

“It is just so sad, there are so many dead – they say it could go as high as 5000 and 10,000 injured,” Mr Shrestha said.

“And many of the historic buildings have been destroyed.”

The couple, who married a year ago, both work as nurses at the Shoalhaven Nursing Home at Bomaderry.

Mrs Shrestha originally came to Australia five years ago as an international student and her husband arrived about seven months ago.

To donate to help people in Nepal go to:

• Oxfam Australia, www.oxfam.org.au

• Red Cross, www.redcross.org.au

• World Vision, emergencies.worldvision.com.au

• Global Care, www.globalcare.com.au
</text>