<url>
http://www.dailylife.com.au/news-and-views/news-features/seven-network-accused-of-nepal-earthquake-ratings-grab-20150430-1mwm5b.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Seven Network accused of Nepal earthquake ratings grab
</headline>

<text>
Actor Hugh Sheridan with his younger brother Zachary Photo: Facebook

The Seven Network's flagship current affairs program Sunday Night has come under fire after it sent a film crew with actor Hugh Sheridan to document the star's search for his younger brother Zachary in devastated Nepal.

The network also sent along its celebrity doctor Andrew Rochford, however Sheridan's 20-year-old brother was located safe and well in a remote village.

During Wednesday night's Seven News bulletin the network ran a promo for the upcoming Sunday Night story immediately after its news report on the rising death toll and worsening conditions four days after the earthquake struck.

Titled "Moving Mountains", the Sunday Night promo featured Dr Rochford, who first came to fame as a contestant on Channel Nine's The Block, conducting a dramatic interview with Sheridan, who says: "I would have climbed Everest to find him."

Advertisement

Following the promo social media sites such as Twitter erupted with condemnation of the network's handling of the story, amid claims it was "cashing in" and trivialising the situation by focussing on a celebrity while thousands of people in Nepal mourned.

SUNDAY: Follow Hugh Sheridan's journey to find his brother and see how you can help victims of the #Nepal earthquake https://t.co/gIcRemuke1 — sunday night (@sundaynighton7) April 30, 2015

When news of the earthquake first emerged last Saturday Sheridan wrote on his Twitter account: "Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest, I'd appreciate every prayer you have spare x"

Within 24 hours he revealed he was travelling to Nepal to search for his brother. Zachary Sheridan notified his loved ones that he was safe and well while his big brother and his entourage were in transit to Nepal.

On Thursday a Seven spokeswoman confirmed Sunday Night's recently installed executive producer Steve Taylor had approached Sheridan, who was in Los Angeles, on Sunday and invited him to join a news crew to travel to Nepal.

"We know Hugh very well, we were reaching out and at that point no one knew if Zachary was alive," she said, confirming that Rochford was dispatched from Sydney to LA to meet with Sheridan and a Sunday Night crew already there working on a separate story before flying on to Nepal.

"Our people there and Hugh are now committed to providing whatever help they can in the situation they have found themselves in, this is a legitimate story and all media outlets are covering it.

"Of course we are not going to muscle in and hire helicopters when they are needed to rescue people ... that is not how we operate," she said, denying that focusing on a celebrity was trivialilising the plight of the thousands of others affected. "People need to look a little deeper."

On Thursday morning News Corp reported that a Sunday Night production crew had approached local authorities in Nepal to help source a helicopter but there were none available as they are all being used to run ­important aid missions­ and to rescue the sick.

"It was apparent that others had more pressing needs, this is why the brothers have not yet been physically reunited," a Channel Seven spokeswoman was quoted saying.

Hugh and his brother Tom were together with Sunday Night when they learned the news they'd been hoping for, that their younger brother Zach was safe. Until late yesterday he'd been unable to get a message out of the remote area he had been travelling in.

The program, along with Seven's Health Editor and Australian Red Cross Ambassador Dr Andrew Rochford, is "continuing to assist Hugh and Tom to reach their brother and endeavouring to provide medical and communications assistance to others in Nepal affected by the earthquake."

When Sheridan arrived at the international airport in Kathmandu his Seven "handlers" told rival media he was not able to comment despite his story becoming headline news in Australia.

The network has been promoting the "full story" to air on Sunday Night this weekend.
</text>