<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-earthquake-buildings-collapse-after-5579124
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Nearly 700 killed and hundreds trapped as buildings collapse after tremors wreak havoc in mountain kingdom
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A total of 688 people have been killed after an earthquake devastated Nepal capital Kathmandu and the densely-populated surrounding area today.

The 7.9-magnitude quake also caused extensive damage with toppled walls and collapsed buildings after striking at noon local time, officials said.

(Image: Getty Images)

Among the dead are a 15-year-old girl was killed in northern India after the earthquake brought down the wall of her home in a village near the border with Nepal.

Labour leader Ed Miliband tweeted: "The awful scenes in Nepal are heartbreaking. My thoughts go out to the people affected, and to those caring for survivors."

(Image: REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar)

Another girl was killed by a falling statue in a town outside Nepal's capital Kathmandu, according to Nepal's state radio.

A senior home ministry official told Reuters that 181 of the dead were killed in the capital.

(Image: Twitter)

Several buildings collapsed in the centre of the capital, including centuries-old temples, said resident Prachanda Sual.

He said he saw people running through the streets in panic. Ambulance sirens blared and government helicopters hovered overhead.

(Image: REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar)

National radio warned people to stay outdoors because more aftershocks are feared. It is also asking people to maintain calm.

Old Kathmandu city is a warren of tightly-packed, narrow lanes with poorly-constructed homes piled on top of each other.

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

(Image: REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar)

Nepal information minister Minendra Rijal told India's NDTV station that there are reports of damage in and around Kathmandu and rescue teams were on the scene.

Among the buildings destroyed was Dharahara tower, a nine storey tall tower at the centre of Kathmandu that was built in 1832.

(Image: REUTERS/Navesh Chitrakar)

The epicentre was 49 miles north-west of Kathmandu, Mr Rijal said. The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million, with the quality of buildings often poor.

A Reuters reporter in Kathmandu said he had seen some buildings collapse and walls of several houses reduced to rubble.

"Everyone is out in the streets, people are rushing to the hospital," the reporter said.

"Massive tremors have been felt here in Delhi and several other parts of India," said a newsreader on NDTV in Delhi.

(Image: Twitter)

"You can see pictures of our Delhi studios, where the windows rattled and everything shook for a very long time, for a minute perhaps or longer," she said as footage showed studio ceiling camera lights shaking.

A police officer in the control room of neighbouring Indian state of Bihar said the phone lines were jammed with callers from across the heavily populated state. "We don't know about the casualties, we are flooded with calls."
</text>