<url>
http://www.bendigoweekly.com.au/news/scary-moments-for-bendigo-pair
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Scary moments for Bendigo pair
</headline>

<text>
« Jim Watson and Kayla Bennett in Nepal. » Jim Watson and Kayla Bennett in Nepal.

A BENDIGO couple have survived one of the worst earthquakes in Nepal’s history.

A 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the tiny nation last Saturday, causing catastrophic damage.

Bendigo-based labourer Jim Watson and local graduate paramedic Kayla Bennett were in Asia as part of their first leg of a trip around the world.

The Australian Defence Force privates met in the army and embarked on their first overseas trip together about six months ago.

“We came to Nepal to tick off climbing to Mount Everest base camp. We wanted to see the villages along the way, meet the local people and try the cuisine,” 24-year-old Jim said.

“Luckily we were still a couple of days away from base camp when the earthquake hit. We were between Namche and Tengbuche where we were meant to stay the night.

“When we arrived we found the guesthouse partially crumbled. While we were walking along, the first thing we noticed was the ground shaking. Not just a little but a lot.

“We looked up at each other and realised what was happening. Then a thunderous roar of what could have been a landslide or avalanche or simply the mountain breaking and shifting sounded. The trees were shaking and cracking.

“It was absolute panic. Not knowing if something would fall on us or how long it would last.”

It was just Jim, Kayla and their guide Kishore Ahikari.

“We slept at another village half about up the track in Debuche. It seemed quiet and calm. But we had a couple small tremors through the night,” Jim said.

“The next morning we sat tight till 10.30am and decided to push up to Periche. When we got to Pengbuche, we found out Periche was just destroyed and there were dead bodies in the street. We turned back.”

But when the pair arrived in Debuche, another tremor struck, so they decided to go back to Namche.

“On the way we were told to expect another big one later that day, so we a ran up a hill to get to stay clear of possible falling rocks. We cleared the hill with no problems,” Jim said.“We got to a part of the track that was ruined by a landslide. Not knowing if another quake would hit, we ran as fast as we could through the rubble to a clear area.”

More than 4000 people are believed to have died since the earthquake hit on Saturday with tremors also felt in neighbouring countries, most notably Bangladesh and India.

Away from immediate danger, the couple settled in Namche with blankets, warm clothes, food and bottled water.

“The feeling in Namche was eerily quiet. Like a dull haze over the town. It wasn’t like we left it. There were tents and tarps set up everywhere as makeshift shelters for both tourists and locals,” Jim said.

“Most of the people requiring help had been evacuated earlier in the day. We watched a large helicopter go overhead a few times carrying bodies.

“Sleeping in Namche that night was difficult. Not knowing when we could be hit again. We had a bag packed with warm clothes ready to go at any moment.”

The duo have registered with the The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and were told on Monday a plane was coming to take them to Kathmandu.

“We are still waiting to hear when our flight is. But knowing it’s coming is such a relief. We will be coming home in the next few days,” Jim said.

Kayla’s parents contacted the tour manager to touch base, with the pair making their first calls home to their families.

Jim’s mother Mab Watson said it was a terrifying and anxious wait to hear if her son and Kayla were alive.

“When we first heard about the earthquake at 6pm on Saturday we were oblivious to how devastating it was,” she said.

“The magnitude didn’t sink in until Sunday and that’s when fear set in.

“We had heard Jim was away from the quake site and that they were heading to base camp. But when we hadn’t heard from him we had growing concerns.”

Mrs Watson said Jim was a determined, passionate young man and wasn’t one to “lay down” but “solider on”.

“It will be sheer and utter relief to see him, and I want to give him a big hug,” she said.

But Mrs Watson said her thoughts were with those were still waiting to hear from loved ones. Jim knows they are lucky to be alive.

“It’s definitely brought Kayla and I closer together,” he said.

“Not knowing what could happen in a minute makes us realise how lucky we are to have each other. We want to get home to see our families again.

“If you are ever caught in that situation, count to three, clear your mind and weigh up your options. Don’t be rash. And know this place can kill you in a second­ – even if you think you’re safe.”
</text>