<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/am/content/2015/s4227299.htm
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
First Australian Air Force aid and evacuation flights arrive in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Siobhan Heanue reported this story on Friday, May 1, 2015 08:04:21

MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: The first Australian Air Force flights delivering aid to Nepal have arrived.



Once they unloaded their cargo, they began evacuating stranded Australian trekkers and tourists.



The evacuation flights are likely to only ramp up from here, with 1,000 Australians known to be at the remote trekking base of Lukla, east of the capital.



I spoke to our correspondent Siobhan Heanue in Katmandhu a short time ago.



Well, Siobhan Heanue, aid is coming in on Australian Air Force planes. How long is it going to take to get that aid to where it's going to be needed?



SIOBHAN HEANUE: Well, that's really difficult to answer, Michael, because Australia is not in direct charge of the distribution of this aid.



In fact, all the aid has been handed over to the Nepalese version of the Care organisation. It's been very difficult for a lot of countries to get their aid distributed. There's not the kind of air traffic that's available in other nations, so it's a case of leaving it at the airport and hoping that it gets places where it's needed.



However, there are ten extra consular office officials that are coming to Nepal within the next few days, and they will aid that kind of distribution plan at least and begin to have a bit of an influence over how that recovery process will work from here on in.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: And what sort of things are we providing?



SIOBHAN HEANUE: Look, there are two main things that are really important that are on those planes. The first one has to do with water - so bottled water and also water purification tablets.



They're important because they will help to stop the spread of water-borne diseases. It's quite a challenge that is being faced in the tent cities that have popped up around the city. And of course, with the onset of monsoon season in Nepal around the corner, that's an added challenge to those who are hoping to prevent those kind of diseases from breaking out in the camps.



The second really important thing that is on that plane are things like tarps and tents, all forms of shelter. Walking around the tent cities over the past few days, I've observed an absolutely desperate need for decent shelter.



What I'm seeing is very rudimentary things like broken bits of plastic, packaging of food stuffs. It's almost being used to piece tents together. I've even seen tarps which are obviously come from the Red Cross from previous crisis, and perhaps even from the civil war era in Nepal so that need for proper shelter is really paramount right now.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: And once those planes have unloaded the aid, we understand they're then going to start taking Australians out of Nepal and to Bangkok and other places?



SIOBHAN HEANUE: Correct, that's already started. More than 100 Australians were airlifted out last night.



They're just the first lot of evacuations because while those were the people who were in Kathmandu, that were around the city surrounds when the earthquake hit, there are more than 1,000 Australians that were in remote trekking towns, those popular tourist destinations like Lukla and Pokhara that are kind of starting off points for those really famous treks around the Annapurna circuit and the like.



Now those thousand-plus Australians have gradually started to make their way back down towards the capital, and over the coming days it's expected there will be more evacuation flights to take them out of the country.



(Sound of a plane)



The roar of an RAAF Globemaster soaring over the mountains and into Kathmandu.



(Sound of a plane)



For about 100 Australians, it was the sound of their ticket home.



After surviving the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, last night marked the end of the adventure for a mix of trekkers, tourists and volunteers.



Tasmanian Leigh Ellis was happy to be headed for Bangkok.



LEIGH ELLIS: I guess once we get back to Thailand, have a few drinks and everything will be okay again, hopefully.



SIOBHAN HEANUE: Most of the evacuees had been camped out at the Australian embassy since the quake.



They were bussed to the airport and ushered quickly onto the tarmac with the help of consular staff.



Australian ambassador to Nepal, Glenn White, has been tasked with leading the effort to account for the hundreds of Australians who were in Nepal when the quake hit.



GLENN WHITE: We've located most Australians - or at least we think they're safe.



SIOBHAN HEANUE: Once on the ground the Globemasters delivered tonnes of aid to a Nepalese aid body, before taking aboard its human cargo.



The evacuees flew into Bangkok with the kind of travel stories they hadn't bargained for when they set off on their journeys.



Some of them found it troubling to leave.



Twenty-one year old Melbourne woman Jess Smith was in Nepal volunteering at a school when the quake hit.



JESS SMITH: It's a- it's a guilty sort of relief, though. I mean, we're fine and we know that we're going to be safe but we're still really praying for everyone that can't just fly away from their problems like we can.



MICHAEL BRISSENDEN: Jess Smith, one of the Australians being airlifted out of Kathmandu to Bangkok, and before that our correspondent in Nepal, Siobhan Heanue.
</text>