<url>
http://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/calgary-pair-arrive-in-kathmandu-after-consulate-allegedly-shrugs-them-off
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Calgary pair arrive in Kathmandu after consulate allegedly shrugs them off
</headline>

<text>
A Calgary father and son arrived Thursday in the Nepalese capital after allegedly being turn away by consular officials following Saturday’s massive earthquake.

Calgarian Dana Engler, 58, and his son Shaun, 30, could be evacuated to India as soon as Friday, after making it to Kathmandu from the remote Langtang National Park — where helicopters brought Western citizens to the capital, but not Canadians.

“They were told by the consulate, ‘We’re not picking you up, find your own way back.’ So the last night definitely we were all very worried as they located a truck that they could use and they took the road. But they’re in Kathmandu — that is the good news, they’re alive and well. It’s some catharsis, it’s relief,” said Jonathan Clark, Dana Engler’s son-in-law.

The pair are among a handful of reports of Canadians travelling through collapsed roads that are threatened by landslides, either on their own or through charity groups, as criticism rises over the Canadian government’s response.

In the Englers’ case, the pair made their way to the park town of Duhnche, and drove what is normally a 70-kilometre route through a mixture of paved and dirt roads. There, they found various countries taking their citizens to the Nepalese capital, but not Canadians.

Earlier this week, Clark said Dana Engler was dehydrated with a flu-like illness, forcing his relatives in Canada to try to commission a private helicopter to get the pair to safety.

“There was sort of frustration in retrospect, considering the consulate’s representatives,” said Clark. “We all kind of panicked.”

The Englers’ worries mirror those of Calgary yoga instructor Tamara McLeod, who ended up in a rural Nepalese village with little food after the earthquake. McLeod’s sister Michelle Dack said she was rescued by a grassroots humanitarian relief organization, the Canadian Medical Assistance Team, after consulate staff allegedly did not provide help getting to Kathmandu.

Bloggers and journalists have also reported that Canadians were kicked out of the consul grounds and had to seek shelter in American diplomatic locations. Such reports have the federal government on the defensive.

“We have a plan,” said Lynne Yelich, the junior foreign minister for consular affairs, told reporters midday Thursday. “We’re tracking for remote areas. We’re currently planning outreach operations to track and map the locations of stranded Canadians and we’re trying to secure traditional means of transportation to access the individuals, to bring them in.”

Defence Minister Jason Kenney noted that the United States and United Kingdom have a large diplomatic presence in the country, and claimed Canada doesn’t because it’s so remote.

“The reason people go to Nepal is because it’s a very small country, far away from civilization they say, and so that’s the reason why we have not decided to have a permanent mission, and resources like that,” Kenney said in French, explaining why Canada’s entire representation in Nepal is a part-time volunteer position undertaken by a local physician.

Canada has sent a large military plane, a C-17 Globemaster, packed with supplies and personnel to help the local population. That plane picked up 96 people Wednesday — mostly Canadians, though some Americans were reported — and brought them free of charge to New Delhi, where 30 consular staff assisted them.

Asked why it took four days to undertake the first airlift, Kenney responded: “I don’t think we’ve ever seen a faster response to an international crisis like this.”

A second Globemaster containing 51 personnel should arrive Friday. Those planes are not taking Canadians back to Canada because they are transporting aid stockpiled in Germany, so Canadians are only brought to New Delhi. Another 200 military personnel are on standby, while the government says it will match any charitable donations for Nepal until May 25, alongside the $5 million it’s pledged.

The government says it has no hard figures but estimates 500 Canadians were in Nepal at the time of the earthquake, and that a hundred have left on commercial flights — which can cost roughly double the price of a flight home from India. Canada’s Emergency Watch response centre has received 3,800 calls and e-mails.

Meanwhile, Nepalese orphans under care of the Calgary-based Kamala Foundation have found safety at a farm outside Kathmandu after evacuating from their shelter in the city.

Terry Barton, who organizes the group’s fundraising from Calgary, said his son Zachary has been able to get donations through local banks to buy enough food and supplies for the children. Zachary will now head to the epicentre of the earthquake with supplies he’s bought locally to help those in need.

“We know that there is aid in the country; there are cargo planes at the airport. But he hasn’t seen a lot of aid on the streets, so at this point he’s not sure whether there’s a bottleneck with the road system,” said Terry Barton, who is regularly updating the foundation’s Facebook page.

“I know there’s a frustration. I feel it myself when I speak to my son everyday, and I would like to be by his side to help him through all of this.”

He said visits to the country changed his whole family, recalling a stranger who hosted him for dinner and killed his last chicken for that meal.

“The people are so friendly; they’re so outgoing; they’re so hospitable,” Barton said. “Their culture is old and it’s unique. One of my fears is that a lot of that heritage has been destroyed by the earthquake and some of it might never be back.”

Calgary’s 4,000-strong Nepalese community continues to worry about relatives in the South Asian country, with fears some may have died in aftershocks and collapsing buildings.

The Calgary Nepalese Community Association will hold a candlelight vigil Friday at 8 p.m. in front of City Hall to remember the earthquake victims.

drobertson@calgaryherald.com

Twitter.com/dcrHerald
</text>