<url>
http://ottawacitizen.com/news/local-news/ambassador-touched-by-outpouring-of-support-for-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Ambassador touched by outpouring of support for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Nepal’s ambassador to Canada, Kali Prasad Pokhrel, is busy helping to co-ordinate relief efforts and keeping the lines of communication open in the wake of Saturday’s earthquake.

“It’s a very difficult situation, and this is something we had never imagined in our lifetime,” said Pokhrel.

The flag outside the Nepal embassy in Ottawa hangs at half-mast. Nepal is in a national state of mourning for the victims of the earthquake.

Pokhrel has been kept busy but he still makes sure to check in with his family, who are all back in Nepal.

“At the beginning, it was a little difficult getting through because everyone was rushing, running for cover,” said Pokhrel. “It took a few hours to get in touch with my daughter.”

Initially, there was no cellphone service, and although landlines were working, many people vacated their homes for fear of being trapped if the buildings collapsed.

Most of Pokhrel’s family is safe, but his cousin was one of the casualties of the earthquake.

“He was hit by a falling gate while he was travelling by microbus and was killed,” said Pokhrel.

As of Thursday morning, the total death toll from the earthquake is 5,858, according to Nepal’s home ministry website. Another 13,827 people were reported injured.

“These numbers are likely to go up as we continue our rescue operations,” said Pokhrel.

With many houses destroyed, some of the most immediate needs are for things like tents, food and water purifiers, said Pokhrel.

In Kathmandu, many people have been staying outside in tents, scared to go back to their homes because of aftershocks.

“Even this morning I got a call, and my daughter told me that tremors are still occurring,” said Pokhrel.

Landslides have closed roads to remote areas, so the Nepal government has been airlifting people out. Some of the most common injuries are broken legs and hands.

Nepal is in dire need of doctors, said Pokhrel.

Despite the destruction, people in Kathmandu are starting to go back to their homes and life is slowly returning to normal, said Pokhrel.

“We will be needing a lot of support for the rebuilding and construction endeavours,” said Pokhrel. “We don’t know the full scale of the destruction and damage. That will take a few more days and weeks to get a full picture.”

Meanwhile, Pokhrel said that he has been overwhelmed by the outpouring of support, not just from the Canadian government, but also from the general public.

“People have been walking around here near my residence and saying that they wish to express their sympathies. People say, ‘We are with you,’ ” said Pokhrel.

The embassy has opened a book of condolences for the public to leave messages of support for Nepal.

tkirnishni@ottawacitizen.com

twitter.com/TanyaKirnishni
</text>