<url>
http://www.cambridgetimes.ca/news-story/5595524-etobicoke-based-global-medic-to-examine-aerial-images-of-nepal-to-plot-out-disaster-relief-distribut/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Etobicoke-based Global Medic to examine aerial images of Nepal to plot out disaster relief distribution
</headline>

<text>
Some are trained to fly the UAVs, Singh said.

“We pride ourselves on being an innovative charity aid organization,” said Singh, an Etobicoke resident, of the registered Canadian charity. “It’s a great example of a private-public partnership with government support. We’re the glue that seals it together.”

The Canadian government provided funding to GlobalMedic to run the drone operations in Nepal, Singh said.

In response to Saturday’s earthquake, the Canadian government announced $5-million in humanitarian assistance funding.

The federal government will match Canadians’ donations to registered Canadian charities offering assistance to Nepal, including GlobalMedic, between April 25 and May 25 through the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund.

Visit www.globalMedic.ca to make a donation.

The federal government has deployed its Disaster Assistance Response Team. The first wave of the military unit that deals with natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies left CFB Trenton Sunday night headed to Europe, Kuwait and then India, where they will wait until called into Nepal.

The United Nations released $15 million Tuesday through its Central Emergency Response Fund to enable humanitarian organizations to rapidly scale up operations and provide immediate assistance to people in need.

The World Health Organization (WHO) reported 30 of Nepal’s 75 districts have been impacted by the earthquake; 11 priority districts have been identified in greatest need of humanitarian aid.

WHO is sending medical supplies and health workers into the region to help the Nepalese government provide rapid medical assistance to the thousands injured in Saturday’s disaster, it said.

For Singh, the natural disaster brought his GlobalMedic mission work full circle.

In 1997, Singh worked for a few months in Nepal. It was there he got the idea to found GlobalMedic.

“I’m really worried where I lived isn’t there anymore. But I can’t think about that now. There is too much work to be done,” he said.

In 1998, Singh founded the David McAnthony Gibson Foundation in memory of his best friend. The foundation helps people in need globally by providing relief supplies and equipment.

It has three operational arms: GlobalMedic, GlobalFire and GlobalWater.

GlobalMedic responds to disasters with rescue, water purification and emergency medical units. GlobalFire conducts search and rescue operations in disaster zones. GlobalWater facilitates household-level water purification programs in developing countries.

In 2010, TIME Magazine named Singh as one of the world’s 100 most influential people in the “hero” category for his commitment to disaster relief in its TIME 100 issue.

In 2012, Singh was awarded the Order of Ontario.
</text>