<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-anuj-sachdeva-kathmandu-airport-air-force-rescue-operations/1/433016.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Anuj Sachdeva recounts 2 harrowing days in Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
TV actor Anuj Sachdeva was among the people who were in Kathmandu when the devastating earthquake struck Nepal. In this candid tete-a-tete, the actor recounts his harrowing experience, dealing with the situation, the long wait to get on an air force plane, and finally reaching Delhi.

Anuj Sachdeva

"I was there for a wedding, so I stayed back for a day. On the 25th, I was on my way back from Kathmandu. I had a flight back to Mumbai, and I had to leave by 2pm. I'd checked out of the hotel and had gone to the airport in the morning itself, since a friend had his flight in the morning. That was the last flight that left from Kathmandu that day. My flight was supposed to arrive, and before that, the earthquake happened.

"It was so bad that we couldn't even understand what was happening. We wanted to come out of the building, but couldn't realise what to do. The tremors were so terrible. I initially thought it was just an aircraft that had landed, but everything started falling here and there. People ran to save their lives; to find a place to get out of the main building. I could see two-three people outside, but they wouldn't open the door to the runway. So I had to break the glass so that we could get out of the building. There was another guy who helped me out. We didn't even know where we were going. All that mattered then was getting out of the building. Even while we were in the process of getting out, there were constant tremors. It was very scary. The terror and the fear. The fear kills you.

"There was no food; the only stall at the airport had been shut. We went out and somehow we managed to go towards the runway. A guy injured himself on the glass shards badly while getting out. After an hour, the tremors returned. We had the fear that we couldn't go inside.

"I'd already checked in. After spending three-four hours at the airport, I went outside the building. The airport was empty. My flight, which was supposed to have taken off in the afternoon, never landed in Kathmandu, to begin with. The flight was cancelled later. It was very cold outside; it was raining, too. I had to be in Mumbai on the 26th for a shoot, but everything turned topsy-turvy.

"By the evening, we got to know that my flight had been cancelled and I was worried about where I'd spend the night. I was travelling alone. I met a taxi driver, and I asked him to drop me back to the hotel. Outside, the devastation was horrible. Everyone was on the streets, there were destroyed buildings all around. Once I reached the hotel, I was told that nobody was allowed inside the hotel, because of safety issues. They didn't let me check in. One of the women from the hotel helped me out. She was really nice; all prepared to handle the situation. The staff was up all night, catering to the needs of the people. They asked us to stay outside the building. We were provided with mattresses, quilts and food.

"All night, every 15 minutes, there was a tremor or more. And it was raining outside. You could neither stay in the building, nor go outside. The panic was so bad that people would run out even on hearing the sound of a trolley, fearing that it was another tremor.

"Next morning, I left for the airport. We couldn't get in touch with anyone. The network was too congested. When I reached the airport, there were some 3,000 people there. The worst part was that all night, all of us kept calling the Indian Embassy. We saw the phone numbers on TV and called them up, but there was no response from the embassy. What is the use of flashing the numbers then? No one had any information about the rescue operations. And no one would risk their lives and stand at the airport.

"The air force guys informed us that they'd been given the orders to expedite the rescue operations and pick up as many people as soon as possible. But Tribhuvan Airport being an international one, it was a bit difficult. One runway was damaged because of the quake; and there was only one runway that could be used. The rescue operations were planned and executed within four hours. That is something that struck us as really amazing. You know the pace at which things happen in India...

"In the morning, there was no one from the Indian Embassy; he arrived only around noon. By the time he reached the airport, there was a queue of some 1,400 people there. Since I had a flight ticket, I stood in a different queue. We were not even informed that all commercial flights had been put on hold. I somehow managed to reach the runway. There were people lying all over the runway.

"It was during that time that the second major earthquake struck. The 6.6 one.

"I couldn't get into a plane. There was no water in the loos; there was no food, nothing. The air force had placed some food and water in a corner, and people were helping themselves to that. By the time I reached an aircraft, it was the last for the day. The priority was women and children, and I didn't understand what to do. The guy manning the aircraft door told us men that we'd be taken the next day, and I couldn't wait any longer. I was feeling unwell. The level of stress and panic was unbelievable.

"I just tried my luck. I went walking towards the plane, and by then they'd started the engines, too. I pleaded with the captain to find a place. I called the guy at the door, and he waved at me, asking me to walk up. I ran. Inside the aircraft, I asked my neighbour if he had something to eat...I was completely starved. He broke a cookie into half and handed me one part. This is something I can never forget.

"I can't imagine all of it. It was all too weird...feeling that helpless. You can't stop it; you can't do anything. Finally, I reached Delhi. It was strange. When I'm at home now, I just feel lucky to be alive."
</text>