<url>
http://www.dnaindia.com/mumbai/report-team-of-indian-doctors-dispatched-to-quake-hit-country-2081865
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Team of Indian doctors dispatched to quake-hit country
</headline>

<text>
A team of 13 doctors, including super specialists from various parts of the country, are all set to fly to Kathmandu on Thursday morning for treating patients left injured by the Nepal quake. Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to send a team of specialist doctors, who will evaluate the medical preparedness on the ground and will also bring back some of the severely-injured patients to India for surgery.

A team of 13 doctors, including super specialists from various parts of the country, are all set to fly to Kathmandu on Thursday morning for treating patients left injured by the Nepal quake. Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to send a team of specialist doctors, who will evaluate the medical preparedness on the ground and will also bring back some of the severely-injured patients to India for surgery. To offer proper treatment to patients, IMA is coordinating with the Inspector General of Police, Nepal.

The survivors of this incident have crushed injuries ranging from bone breakage, crush syndrome, and injuries to the head and abdomen. In particular, saving limbs will be a major task in the situation, and needs urgent medical attention by specialists.

The team of doctors comprising an orthopaedic surgeon, anaesthetist, plastic surgeon, general surgeon and general physician, is led by Dr Ashok Gupta, head of plastic surgery department, Bombay hospital. Dr Gupta is experienced in relief work during the Bhuj earthquake in Gujarat and the Koyna earthquake in Maharashtra. Dr Gupta is also a core committee member of disaster management cell, IMA.

The doctors in the team hail from various places across the country including Mumbai, Pune, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, and Delhi.

"Our first team of doctors will visit Kathmandu and evaluate the situation. They will also perform surgeries. We have also asked the team to make a detailed report about what needs to be done in future. As per this report, we will also keep a team of 50 specialist doctors ready. We are co-ordinating with IG police Nepal, so that our doctors can reach the patients who are stuck in remote areas,"said Dr Chetan Patel, head of disaster managment Cell, IMA.

Sources from Consulate General of Nepal office situated in Kolkata, said there is a huge need of doctors because of the number of injured patients.

"I have students in various places, and one of my students is in Nepal. So, we have gotten accurate information from Nepal. They need super-specialist doctors, anaesthetists, also they need disposable equipment which is used in surgery. Our association and Bombay hospital has provided some disposable gowns, medicine, and suture material, but they still lack good high-end machinery to perform the surgery," said Dr Gupta.

"Once we reach there we will analyse the situation. We plan to perform lots of surgeries. If we see that any patients need major surgery, and are fit to be flown back, then we will bring them back to India," he added.
</text>