<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150501/jsp/bihar/story_17614.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Hands of humanity to cremate
</headline>

<text>
Nepal police and army personnel clear rubble from temples at Durbar Square in Kathmandu and (right) a few residents leave for Nepal on Wednesday evening to cremate bodies. Pictures by AFP and Nagendra Kumar Singh A group of 42 people left for Nepal on Wednesday evening for an unusual task - cremate bodies of earthquake victims. They are not cremation experts. But they decided to undertake the task out of sheer humanity. After hearing the heart-wrenching tale of quake victims and learning about shortage of hands for proper cremation, the group volunteered for the job. The Bihar government promptly responded to the humane gesture of the 42 people and provided them with a bus for going to Nepal. It also made necessary arrangements for their stay in the neighbouring country. The 42 members of the group registered their names with the officials before departing for Nepal. Their own stuff stuffed in small bags, they embarked on the journey. Forget signs of compulsion, they looked eager to extend their help to Nepal. Till now, over 5,000 people have been killed in one of biggest earthquakes in the Himalayan region on Saturday after 80 years. Nepal is geographically earthquake-prone. The last week's tremor, measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale, is being considered big because of its number of aftershocks. Vashant Mahto (42), a resident of Raxaul, gave a humanitarian reason for his visit to Nepal to cremate bodies. "I have heard that thousands of people lost their lives and there is shortage of hands to cremate bodies because most of the members of the relief teams are busy in rescue operations. It was really painful when I heard this and asked others to be with me. It is very important that the soul of the deceased rest in peace," said Mahto, adding that he would not mind doing the job till all the bodies were cremated. Akhilesh Kumar (38), another member of the group, said: "By cremating the bodies I would not become a small person. I am going there with an intention to do some good things in my life. I think more people should extend their help in this work. If the bodies are not cremated, there is a big chance of outbreak of an epidemic. It can spread to Bihar as well because it shares border with Nepal." The 42 people boarded the bus from the India-Nepal border provided by the Bihar government on Wednesday evening. After having light refreshment of watermelon and cucumber, they took their belongings and boarded the vehicle. The bus would drop the members of the group at the quake-affected areas in Nepal, including Lalitpur, Lamjung, Sindhupalchowk, Kathmandu, Nardevi, Kirtipur, Gorkha and Rasuwa. Once the group huddled inside, an official at the relief camp made announcements that those interested could go to Nepal to cremate bodies. Prakash Kumar, another official at the relief camp, praised the effort of the group-of-42 and said: "For the first time, I have come across a group of people ready to cremate bodies of strangers. It shows humanity still exists in our society." Both the state government and the Centre are involved in the relief work at the border. Chief minister Nitish Kumar and several Union ministers visited Raxaul to monitor the work being carried out in the camps. Nitish gave some important instructions to the officials at the camps besides deputing special officers to maintain proper coordination between the state government and the Centre.
</text>