<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-indo-nepal-border-terrorists-ib/1/432869.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
After quake, terrorists may enter India via Indo-Nepal border, says IB
</headline>

<text>
In the aftermath of the devastating earthquake, the Indo-Nepal border has become vulnerable to terrorist infiltration. Taking advantage of chaos along the Indo-Nepal border, members of several terrorist groups may enter India with sinister designs.

The Intelligence Bureau (IB) in its latest communique has sent an alert to Uttar Pradesh to intensify vigil at the border in Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit in the state.

"It has become impossible for the forces to keep an eye on every person entering India from Nepal after the devastating earthquake in that country.

The Uttar Pradesh government has opened several camps along the border to provide relief to the affected people of Nepal. In this situation it is our duty to ensure a hassle-free passage these people. But terrorists have got an opportunity to enter India in the guise of earthquake victims. The Intelligence Bureau has said that members of the anti-India forces may have entered India," a senior intelligence officer said.

Inspector General of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) Ram Kumar said, "We are keeping close vigil along the Indo-Nepal border. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), local police, ATS and other agencies have been working to prevent any infiltration."

He admitted that the terrorists could also enter India in the guise of relief workers. Meanwhile, Nazir Khan, IG of SSB visited Sonauli border in Maharajganj district on Tuesday and took stock of the situation. He said that while it was their duty to ensure that the people in the camps get food and medicines, security was still their top priority. "We cannot afford to keep our eyes away from those who are entering India through Nepal border," he said.

SSB Director General Banshi Dhar Sharma also visited Nautanwa area in Maharajganj to take stock of the situation.

Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh government has brought over 6,000 people in 106 buses from Nepal and kept them at several relief camps. Two-hundred buses have been sent to Kathmandu to bring whosoever was rendered homeless in the earthquake. Over a dozen camps have also been set up along the border.

With the attention now on sending relief through road, an extra vigil on the Indo-Nepal border is required as thousands of people are expected to arrive in India. The officials said that a convoy of 80 buses has already moved through road. The Indian government want to stop sending relief by air and use the road route.
</text>