<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Varanasi/Nepali-students-join-hands-for-quake-victims/articleshow/47103797.cms
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepali students join hands for quake victims
</headline>

<text>
VARANASI: Several Nepali students, pursuing various courses in the city, have joined hands to raise funds and provide necessary assistance to the earthquake victims in remote areas of Nepal which are yet to receive aid.Nepali students of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University (SSU) and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) assembled and decided to start raising funds for support to their countrymen in need."We are desperate to provide collected funds and assistance to victims of the remote areas in the quake-ravaged Nepal as rescue teams are still to reach there. No emergency teams, rescue equipment or tarps for shelter have been arranged for victims there hence, it is our responsibility," BHU research scholar and native of Chitvan in Nepal, Dhruv Sabkota told TOI on Wednesday. "Though huge amount of aid is being sent from all across the globe yet we do not know for how long will it continue", he added. Funds of Rs 1.5 lakh have been collected till date, he said.Another research scholar, Lakshmi Prasad Gautam informed, "Several students of BHU's international hostel helped in raising funds from various departments and faculties of BHU. We have also constituted few teams who will collect medicines and purchase other relief items for the victims, and visit quake-struck Nepal to help people there, he said further adding that a group of medical students of Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU will leave for Nepal on Thursday evening after a meeting on Wednesday.Earlier on Tuesday evening, these Nepali students participated in 'deep daan', organised by temple trust of Samrajeshwar Pashupatinath Temple, situated at Lalita Ghat along river Ganga, as a special ode for peace of the departed souls. A sum of Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 was collected to help the victims, informed Gautam.Meanwhile, TOI caught up with Nepali students pursuing Shastri (Sanskrit degree) from SSU who were unable to communicate with their family and near ones stranded in Nepal following the severe earthquake."For two days, I was unable to communicate with my family and relatives. I had to wait until Monday after which communication lines became normal," said Madan Prasad Vajegain, third year Shastri student."I spoke to my family members yet I am planning to visit my hometown Baglung in Nepal soon," said another student, Sudarshan Kandal. "Despite network issues, I got lucky to get through my family on Sunday evening. Everything is fine there but the fact that my countrymen are suffering, shatters me," said his friend Dharmaraj Nirauli."I had just reached Haridwar on April 25 when I received a call from my well wishers from Gujarat asking me if my family was okay. I had no idea about quake as I was travelling at that time. I was worried when I could not reach my family but later I came to know about their well-being," said Padmaraj Regme, pursuing B Ed in Sanskrit.
</text>