<url>
http://www.laht.com/article.asp?CategoryId=12395&ArticleId=2385599
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Kathmandu Cultural Heritage Sites Damaged in Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
HOME | World (Click here for more)

Kathmandu Cultural Heritage Sites Damaged in Earthquake



KATHMANDU – The earthquake that ravaged Nepal on Saturday has robbed Kathmandu valley of not only thousands of human lives, but also a part of its cultural heritage, damaging practically all the UNESCO world heritage sites, some of which were in the country’s capital.



Some of the ruined temples and historic monuments in Kathmandu’s iconic Bashantpur Durbar reflect the impact of the earthquake on Nepal’s historic and cultural heritage.



“This place was amazing, a UNESCO heritage site, but the devastation turned it into a desert. Probably it is not going to attract people here anymore,” World Hindu youth Federation president Rajan Maharajan told Efe.



Some of the temples have been reduced to dust and rubble, while many onlookers are stunned to see their heritage on the ground in pieces, while people seem to cope by taking photos with their mobile phones of the imprint left by the disaster on their cultural heritage.



Maharajan, who was in charge of looking after the monuments, with a pained face pointed out that one of the buildings destroyed in the Durbar was the replica of the Pashupatinath Temple, Nepal’s holiest Hindu shrine located on the outskirts of Kathmandu.



“Only the royalty could enter this temple,” he recalled nostalgically.



He further said that very few buildings had survived the earthquake “for now,” but “one does not know what will happen later,” as buildings thought to be structurally unsound may be demolished for security reasons.



The oldest of them went back 500 years.



Gajendra Shrestha of the Conscientious Citizens organization blamed the country’s government for fate of the monuments, claiming that it had neglected the monuments, which, in his opinion, were not in the best conditions to withstand an earthquake.



Though old constructions have been the most affected, the quake also demolished several new ones in Kathmandu.



The Durbar areas turned into a cemetery, full of dead bodies and bricks.



Several bodies were found in the Krishna Temple, another dozen in Maju Dengan and a five-story building that collapsed in the region, according to the calculations of the Hindu federation president.



During the quake, many people were donating blood in the area, “many of whom have died,” he added with a somber face.



Situated in the heart of the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu Durbar is not the only site to have been severely affected.



According to UNESCO, considerable damage has been recorded in Patan Durbar, the palaces of Hanuman Dhoka in Kathmandu, and the Bhaktapur monument complex, which has “been practically destroyed.”



The landmark Dharahara tower, built in 1832, also came crumbling down, and 120 bodies were found in its debris.



Moreover, Sagarmantha National Park, another UNESCO natural heritage site at the base of Mt. Everest falls, was also seriously affected.



Besides the human losses -more than 5,000 people dead and 11,000 injured so far-damage to cultural heritage also signifies huge economic losses in the form of tourism revenue.



According to Maharajan, the Bashantpur complex alone, visited by thousands of tourists every day, supplied income equivalent to around $495,000 per year.



“There are temples, there is God. But I cannot see them,” he exclaimed while touring the ruins sites, temples where he will no longer be able to worship.



KATHMANDU – The earthquake that ravaged Nepal on Saturday has robbed Kathmandu valley of not only thousands of human lives, but also a part of its cultural heritage, damaging practically all the UNESCO world heritage sites, some of which were in the country’s capital.Some of the ruined temples and historic monuments in Kathmandu’s iconic Bashantpur Durbar reflect the impact of the earthquake on Nepal’s historic and cultural heritage.“This place was amazing, a UNESCO heritage site, but the devastation turned it into a desert. Probably it is not going to attract people here anymore,” World Hindu youth Federation president Rajan Maharajan told Efe.Some of the temples have been reduced to dust and rubble, while many onlookers are stunned to see their heritage on the ground in pieces, while people seem to cope by taking photos with their mobile phones of the imprint left by the disaster on their cultural heritage.Maharajan, who was in charge of looking after the monuments, with a pained face pointed out that one of the buildings destroyed in the Durbar was the replica of the Pashupatinath Temple, Nepal’s holiest Hindu shrine located on the outskirts of Kathmandu.“Only the royalty could enter this temple,” he recalled nostalgically.He further said that very few buildings had survived the earthquake “for now,” but “one does not know what will happen later,” as buildings thought to be structurally unsound may be demolished for security reasons.The oldest of them went back 500 years.Gajendra Shrestha of the Conscientious Citizens organization blamed the country’s government for fate of the monuments, claiming that it had neglected the monuments, which, in his opinion, were not in the best conditions to withstand an earthquake.Though old constructions have been the most affected, the quake also demolished several new ones in Kathmandu.The Durbar areas turned into a cemetery, full of dead bodies and bricks.Several bodies were found in the Krishna Temple, another dozen in Maju Dengan and a five-story building that collapsed in the region, according to the calculations of the Hindu federation president.During the quake, many people were donating blood in the area, “many of whom have died,” he added with a somber face.Situated in the heart of the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu Durbar is not the only site to have been severely affected.According to UNESCO, considerable damage has been recorded in Patan Durbar, the palaces of Hanuman Dhoka in Kathmandu, and the Bhaktapur monument complex, which has “been practically destroyed.”The landmark Dharahara tower, built in 1832, also came crumbling down, and 120 bodies were found in its debris.Moreover, Sagarmantha National Park, another UNESCO natural heritage site at the base of Mt. Everest falls, was also seriously affected.Besides the human losses -more than 5,000 people dead and 11,000 injured so far-damage to cultural heritage also signifies huge economic losses in the form of tourism revenue.According to Maharajan, the Bashantpur complex alone, visited by thousands of tourists every day, supplied income equivalent to around $495,000 per year.“There are temples, there is God. But I cannot see them,” he exclaimed while touring the ruins sites, temples where he will no longer be able to worship. Enter your email address to subscribe to free headlines (and great cartoons so every email has a happy ending!) from the Latin American Herald Tribune:


</text>