<url>
http://www.wimbledonguardian.co.uk/news/12927070.Nepal_earthquake_hero_is_convicted_killer/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake hero Rocky Gurung is convicted killer
</headline>

<text>
A man helping coordinate aid for Nepalese earthquake victims was jailed for manslaughter and deported to the country last year in what he described as the lowest point of his life.

It emerged yesterday that Rocky Gurung, who used to live in Morden, was deported by the UK government last February after he served three years in prison for the killing of Esher waiter Bishal Gurung in 2008.

From yesterday: Nepalese government taxing and with-holding life-saving supplies for earthquake victims

Rocky Gurung, Missan Gurung, Roman Thapa, Lav Gurung and Kemik Thakali were all charged with murder and violent disorder, but a lack of evidence saw the murder charge dropped for all, except for Rocky Gurung and Thakali.

A jury found Rocky Gurung guilty of manslaughter and violent disorder, while Thakali was found guilty of manslaughter, but not guilty of violent disorder.

In the past few days he has been to remote villages to the west of Kathmandu to deliver blankets, tents and energy saving torches but he has not been allowed to distribute all of them to people in need, highlighting problems with the government allegedly taxing with-holding vital donations.

He and a team of medically trained volunteers have been independently travelling up to 60 miles each way to the remote area of Dhading to deliver supplies to those in need after the devastating earthquake on Saturday which has claimed the lives of nearly 6,000 people.

Community pulls together to help devastated Nepal after earthquake kills and injures thousands

Dhading, above, where Rocky has been helping earthquake victims

He has also been highlighting the plight of the quake victims via Facebook, encouraging people to donate to rescue efforts, and has criticised the Nepalese authorities for failing to distribute donations and taxing aid flowing into the country.

Asked yesterday about being forced to move back to his native country after being released from prison, he said: "It was one of my life’s lowest points.

"At first it was quite hard but my family supported me.

"It was an accident.

"One of those drunk fights and someone ended up dead."

The victim was found in the Thames near Embankment after what the judge described at the trial as an "unprovoked and senseless episode."

Gurung was jailed for three years for manslaughter. However, after finishing his prison sentence he launched two appeals against deportation and persuaded judges that it would breach his "right to private and family life" if he was sent back to Nepal - even though he was single with no children and lived with his parents. But he lost the second appeal and he was deported from his home in Green Lane, Morden, shortly afterwards.

During the trial, the prosecution claimed the victim Bishal Gurung was chased along the Embankment by 10 to 15 men and beaten before being thrown into the river, where his body was found two weeks later.

His deportation was championed by the Daily Telegraph newspaper and the Home Office, and praised by MP Dominic Raab, in whose constituency the victim lived.

The court heard at the time that Bishal Gurung, who is not related to Rocky Gurung and worked at the Sherpa Kitchen in Esher High Street, Esher, had been celebrating the Nepalese new year on a boat moored at Waterloo Bridge when he was falsely accused of hitting Thakali with a bottle.
</text>