<url>
http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2015/apr/29/scripps-nepal-update/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Scripps volunteers prep for Nepal mission
</headline>

<text>
Having worked amid the rubble of Haiti’s 2010 earthquake, nurse Debra McQuillen has seen her share of patients with crushed limbs, injured heads and festering infections arrive in droves seeking treatment.

An impending trip to Nepal will likely deliver the same kinds of injuries but perhaps in a contrasting setting, she said.

This time around, the volunteer team fielded by her employer — Scripps Health — and other medical providers could help in existing facilities or roam the quake-ravaged country, visiting places where they’re needed the most. In Haiti, she had used her skills in a damaged but still-serviceable hospital in the capital of Port-au-Prince.

The Nepal mission, then, could be tragically similar and different.

“It’s very rugged, and we’re going to have to walk a lot more to get to where the patients are,” McQuillen, a Scripps vice president, told journalists gathered at the health system’s headquarters in La Jolla on Wednesday. “That’s not to say Haiti was easy. We were in a hospital, but we were still carrying patients over rubble to get them to the wards, to get them an X-ray, to get them to the operating room.”

Related How to help Nepal earthquake victims

Scripps is joining forces with the International Medical Corps to send half a dozen doctors and nurses to Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal. The itinerary has been changing by the day as conditions on the ground evolve. The Corps has modified its initial approach of staffing a field hospital to also include operating mobile medical teams that fan out from Kathmandu to smaller towns and remote villages.

The shift comes as heavy rains are reaching Nepal, where monsoon season is beginning. The deluges increase the thread of landslides and compound the suffering of a Himalayan nation still reeling from the effects of Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 earthquake.

Nepalese officials counted nearly 5,300 dead and more than 10,300 injured as of Wednesday evening.

Across Nepal, the temblor has affected 8 million people in 39 districts, according to the United Nations. Families that have already lost loved ones and homes continue to fear aftershocks.

View the Video Scripps medical team travels to Nepal

The Nepalese government, other countries and a loose coalition of nonprofit groups are rushing to deliver tents and tarps for people to use as temporary shelter. They are concerned that rain will hamper this effort. They also worry that it will complicate the ability of helicopters to reach certain villages with food, other supplies and critical medicine.

A positive development occurred Wednesday, with the evacuation of four San Diego County residents who had been stranded together because of quake-triggered avalanches.

Kathleen Heldman and her husband, Kevin Krogh, of Encinitas, were airlifted along with traveling companions Oscar Olea of El Cajon and Brigida Martinez of San Diego, according to Heldman’s sister, Caroline Heldman of Los Angeles. The four had been on a Himalayan climb when the earthquake hit.

A military helicopter flew the group from a region called Kyangin Gompa to the Dhunche army base and later to a hotel. The travelers plan to set out for Kathmandu today, Caroline Heldman said.

Several others with connections to San Diego County also are stranded in Nepal, none with serious injuries. They include a Cardiff couple waiting for an airlift from the Langtnag region.

As these individuals try to make their way home, nurse McQuillen and others with the Scripps team will start what’s expected to be a 21-day mission. They have been told that they may have to live in tents and perform their medical procedures out of a vehicle or even outdoors, perhaps with nothing more than the equipment in their backpacks.

It will be the first disaster-relief trip with Scripps for Dr. Mark Olcott.

But as a Navy veteran who has deployed to the Middle East and completed medical missions in impoverished areas, Olcott said he knows what to expect in Nepal.

Dr. Mark Olcott speaks during an interview at the Scripps Corporate headquarters in La Jolla on Wednesday. He and other members of a medical team from Scripps will be traveling to Nepal to help aid the victims of the recent earthquake there. Hayne Palmour IV

While the team will carry portable ultrasound machines and laboratory test kits that can function in the field, getting a quick X-ray will not be possible and access to basics such as fresh water and electricity could be severely limited.

That’s still OK, Olcott said, because much can be done through basic medical examinations. The conveniences of a modern emergency room are nice, but not essential.

“I would say we can do 75 percent of what we do in the hospital on the road, maybe more. We’ll have to see,” Olcott said.

McQuillen agreed.

“When it comes down to it, we’re giving very immediate basic emergency care to people, and that really doesn’t rely on technology. That relies on skill and experience,” she said.

Another big part of the process is forming a team that has shown in training that it can work well together, said Scripps CEO Chris Van Gorder. Having nurses and physicians who are willing to back each other up is essential when they are working far away from their usual base of operations.

“The worst thing you could do is deploy people into a situation like this and have them not get along,” Van Gorder said.
</text>