<url>
http://www.mlive.com/news/muskegon/index.ssf/2015/04/grand_haven_graduate_remains_i.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Grand Haven native remains in Nepal after surviving earthquake, says 'heart aches for the families'
</headline>

<text>
OTTAWA COUNTY, MI - Grand Haven native Allie Vaandering went to Nepal recently for a cultural adventure - to hike, to gain a better understanding of life and to befriend those who live there.

But on Saturday, April 25, she was sitting in a restaurant in Nepal when a 7.8 earthquake rattled the area. She was stunned. She was scared, and ultimately took to her blog to share her experience there.

MLive/Muskegon Chronicle reached out to Vaandering, 28, a 2005 Grand Haven High School graduate, by email recently. She is unable to communicate via phone at this time, she said. She remained in Nepal as of Wednesday, April 29, with no intention of leaving any earlier than planned. Neither Vaandering nor her boyfriend who is there with her were injured, she said.

Nepal was meant to be 'an adventure'

Q: What brings you to Nepal?

A: "I LOVE traveling. It's my obsession. Nepal is my 34th country and second favorite in the world. We came to trek. Initially we were going to do Island Peak in the Everest region, but (our) bodies weren't quite ready for that (spent the two months prior to the trip in Michigan winter) then we decided on the Annapurna. We came to white water raft and go canyoning, everything adventurous that was available. It's the most perfect country for that. And to experience the culture and figure out why one of the poorest nations in the world has the most incredibly gorgeous Himalayan Mountains."

A rattling breakfast

Q: Where were you when the earthquake struck?

A: "We were in a restaurant when the initial quake hit in Pokhara."

According to her blog, she was having breakfast.

"We had just sat down upstairs on a balcony at a restaurant for late breakfast when all of a sudden the building started to shake. No one made a sound we all just looked at each other. I asked Freddie immediately 'was that an earthquake?' In no great panic but very quick footsteps the entire upstairs of the restaurant made their way down the spiral metal profusely shaking staircase to the street. At this point the building was swaying and shaking furiously. We made our way to the other side of the street where tons and tons of people were gathering away from all the buildings. We stood in the safest spot we could find away from all the ridiculously low overhanging electrical wires - which is a cluster of hundreds of wires, they don't really have the most pleasant looking electrical poles and wires, there are clumps and clusters all tangled and hanging everywhere in cities in this part of the world," Vaandering blogged.

Human kindness

Q: Are you able to assist those in need, or are you and your group also in need of items?

A: "Tonight we helped out carrying goods and things from trucks and helped pack it onto buses to be brought out to the villages tomorrow. The trouble is it's so fresh, it's day four, and the assistance needed at this point is medical personal and maybe technical. We have been looking for ways to help, but we need to keep in mind a number of things: First, that we aren't qualified, and despite our passion, we will very much be in the way. We will need places to stay ourselves -- and we're wanting to go into places where people are already homeless and sleeping in the open. We also need to think about the diseases that are going to start spreading. So we can't go out into the villages ourselves, and (potentially) cause extra unnecessary spread of the disease and also require medical attention. If we go, we have to think about our own food and water, etc."

Lending a helping hand

Q: Where are you staying now?

A: "We have been staying at the Pushpa Guest House in Lakeside, Pokhara, which is now carrying on as usual. What we have determined to be the best solution is to bring these villages -- and I am talking about the villages the government is not able to reach at this time -- food, water, warm clothes, sleeping bags, tarps to build tents, vaccinations, if possible, etc. What Freddie and I are going to do is go with the owner of our Guest House to where his wife's family is currently living and bring them all of these goods. We can afford a bit, but we're hoping to ask family and friends to help out. At this point these villages do not need money. There is nowhere for them to buy food or buy a tent. They need someone to deliver these necessary goods. We will be taking a jeep a portion of the way and will have to hike out to these villages carrying the goods. We will be doing this in about two to three days while we are collecting goods and things for now, and waiting for a bit more information."

RELATED: International Aid solicits donations for Nepal victims

Range of emotions

Q: What sort of range of emotions have you gone through since Saturday?

A: "The initial quake itself was so surreal I didn't speak for an hour or two afterwards. Everyone after that was just completely clear-minded, doing what was necessary to get myself as close to safety as possible. Now I just want to help, but we have to be patient and not rush into something without considering all the necessary particulars. My heart aches for the families. I simply cannot imagine the pain they are going through right now. One thing that upsets me the most is that Nepali people are so kind, generous and happy (well, before the quake, and now too), they didn't deserve a devastation this massive."

Staying positive

Q: Have you managed to stay positive throughout this ordeal?

A: "Staying positive has always been something I do well. I think when you are in such a situation like this you don't really have an option but to forge ahead. In saying that, I still haven't seen yet with my own eyes the actual aftermath, but we will in a few days."

The latest

Q: Have you felt more aftershocks since the earthquake?

A: "And a few small quakes hit this morning, but nothing that got us out of bed and now it's raining quite heavy so getting tents and tarps to the villages is becoming a large concern so they don't freeze! Basically we are just going to buy up all the supplies we can afford and bring them out. Some organizations are bringing things out by heli(copter), but the trouble is they are bringing like 1,000 tarps and they need like 20,000 and blankets and coats, and food etc. So we are going to try and do our best, but without getting in the way or making matters worse."

Life lessons

Q: What have you taken away from this experience thus far?

A: "Life is precious and you should always live your life to the fullest because you never know what can happen. I have always lived this. I have been living a travel lifestyle for about five years now and I really have no intention of ever slowing down or putting my passion aside. I am drained of energy everyday even though we aren't doing much, (except) using our brains a lot to try and get wheels in motion to make a difference without getting in the way, or making a situation worse. Really looking forward to helping out one of the greatest friends we have made on our trip so far: Raj, the guy who runs the guest house. Being able to actually do and give something, and see where you efforts are going, is going to be a very rewarding experience."

Here's a link to her new fundraising blog that is set up to assist earthquake victims.

The magnitude 7.8 earthquake on Saturday, April 25, affected Kathmandu and small villages in the region, extending to the slopes of Mount Everest and triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with climbers preparing to make their summit attempts, the Associated Press reported.

The death toll climbed to more than 5,000 people as of Wednesday, April 29, according to the Associated Press.

International Aid is just one of many groups offering help to Nepal. Catholic Relief Services, Save the Children, the American Red Cross, Friends Service Council Nepal and Unicef are among the other agencies providing assistance.

Residents can donate online by calling 1-800-251-2502, visiting www.internationalaid.org or by dropping off money at the International Aid office, 17011 Hickory St., Spring Lake.

Heather Lynn Peters covers police and fire, and writes a statewide food column, The Spunky Kitchen, for MLive/Muskegon Chronicle. Email her at hpeters@mlive.com and follow her on Twitter @HLPNEWS.
</text>