<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11572856/Nepal-earthquake-live.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: 120 Britons flown out of Nepal amid reports of second British death at Everest
</headline>

<text>
We are going to close our live coverage for the day here.

To catch up on the day's events, you can read the following reports:

For more breaking developments, visit our Nepal page.

17.24

Two foreign nationals have been found dead after an avalanche on Tuesday hit a village in a popular trekking destination north of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu, the interior ministry has said.

Up to 250 trekkers were feared missing after the avalanche hit a village in Langtang in the aftermath of Saturday's massive earthquake.

Aid workers were able to locate hundreds of those reported missing, and they were airlifted to safety. But two bodies were found in the area.

The nationality of the dead tourists was not known, the home ministry said, adding that rescue work there had been completed.

16.57

Clashes between police and desperate earthquake survivors broke out in Nepal's capital today as tempers frayed in the wake of the deadly earthquake. Tom Philips reports from Kathmandu:

Frustration over the slow pace of the aid operation has been building on the streets of Nepal’s capital, where tens of thousands of people are sleeping rough in 16 makeshift refugee camps following the 7.8 magnitude quake.

Scuffles broke out at the city’s main bus station on Wednesday morning after thousands of people swarmed there hoping to board vehicles back to their rural homes. When they were unable to travel, rioters armed with sticks surged into the street, attacking vehicles, according to Reuters.

On Wednesday afternoon furious passengers who were still trying to escape Nepal’s devastated capital surrounded The Telegraph at the bus station.

“We don’t want to die here in the earthquake if anything happens. We just want to get out of this valley now,” shouted Dependra Sharma, 26, who returned home to Nepal recently after five years living in London where he studied at a college in Hammersmith.



Nepal military personnel load relief supplies onto a truck at the Gorkha district office (Reuters)

“It is risky here in Kathmandu,” Mr Sharma added, referring to the powerful aftershocks from Saturday’s earthquake. “You can see the dead bodies, stinking. There is no water for the people. There is no electricity. There is nothing at all. The people, they may die of hunger. Nothing has come to the common people.”

Sandesh Sharma, 17, said he was also disgusted at Nepal’s response. “The government is doing nothing. They are just speaking the words.”

Around them stood riot police wearing helmets and clutching bamboo canes.

Read in full: Riot police intervene as anger erupts among Nepal earthquake survivors

16.27

A UK aid flight has left Kathmandu for Britain with around 120 British nationals on board, the foreign secretary has tweeted.

UK aid flight now departed Kathmandu airport on return journey with c120 British nationals on board #Nepal — Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) April 29, 2015

The flight is expected to land in the early hours of the morning.

16.17

The Nepal Mountaineering Association has increased to 19 the number of fatalities from the avalanche on Mount Everest.

It said on Wednesday that five of the dead were foreign climbers and 14 were Nepalese Sherpa guides.

The avalanche triggered by Saturday's 7.8-magnitude quake also injured dozens of people when it swept through base camp, knocking over tents and people.

The association said 10 Sherpas have been identified.

The Americans were Daniel Fredinburg and Marisa Eve Girawong, and the other foreigners were Ge Zhenfang from China, Renu Fotedar from Australia and Hiroshi Yamagata from Japan.

The association did not mention unconfirmed Foreign Office reports of a British national killed at Base Camp.

All climbers have now left Everest, ending the climbing season early for the second year.

15.35

Officials are "urgently investigating" reports that a British national has died at Everest base camp following the earthquake in Nepal.

This comes shortly after the Foreign Office confirmed the death of a non-resident British national who had lived in Hong Kong.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said they are "urgently investigating" reports of a further British national reported killed at the Everest base camp.

He said they do not have any confirmation yet.

14.40

The United Nations is appealing for $415 million to provide for vital needs in Nepal over the next three months.

It intends to support government efforts in provide shelter, water and sanitation, emergency health, food, and protection.

The UN's humanitarian coordinator for Nepal, Jamie McGoldrick, said the response to date was encouraging, but those efforts need to be maintained, especially in remote areas.

The Telegraph's Colin Freeman has filmed the destruction in the village of Archale, saying:

It may be difficult for aid agencies to meet these demands quickly, if the journey to Archale made by The Telegraph was anything to go by. Archale is not particularly remote by Nepalese standards, but it still took 4 hours’ drive from Kathmandu by road, followed by a two-hour motorbike scramble up steep tracks that were often little better than dried up river beds, some of them hit by landslides and boulder falls.

Here is his video dispatch:

14.13

Helicopters have rescued some 210 foreign trekkers and local villagers stranded in the Lantang area north of Nepal's capital, according to the Associated Press.

The international trekkers were stranded in Langtang, a popular trekking route bordering Tibet, since the earthquake on Saturday that killed more than 5,000 people.

Government administrator Gautam Rimal said the trekkers and villagers were flown to the nearby town of Dhunche. But with landslides cutting off the roads from there to Kathmandu, the trekkers will have to trudge for at least four hours before they can board a bus to the Nepalese capital.

13.52

Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, has tweeted on the outcome of the COBR meeting earlier:

Just chaired COBR on UK support to #Nepal. UK flight unloading 11 tonnes vital aid in Kathmandu including search cameras, stretchers & tents — Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) April 29, 2015

13.26

Rishi Khanal, who spent 82 hours in the rubble of a collapsed building in Nepal, Kathmandu, drinking his own urine to survive, describes his ordeal:

12.50

Susannah Ross, 20, from Bath, is among a group of trekkers still stranded in the Langtang valley in the north of Nepal, and is not expected to be rescued until tomorrow at the earliest, her sister has told Press Association:

Nina Ross said they received a satellite message at about 5am saying the group is still awaiting rescue and she called for pressure to be put on authorities to act.

Asked how she had found her experience of communicating with the British embassy and authorities in general, Nina, 25, said it had been "very frustrating".

She said the stranded group flattened some land so there is a helicopter landing pad, but they have been told that Susannah may not be rescued until tomorrow.

"We're really hoping to get through to different embassies to hurry it up because there's still falling rocks in that area that are killing people," she said.

Nina said she has not spoken to her sister directly, and added: "We really need pressure on the embassies, on any kind of charities, on anyone, to get helicopters out there."

She said people from other countries were lifted out yesterday as their embassies had paid for helicopters.

"So the British embassy haven't paid for helicopters to get Susannah out and that means that she's been left there with some people," she said.

Nina said they had indicated they would launch a rescue attempt today but she said they "changed their mind" and are not sending a helicopter today.

She said that, due to this, the family "don't really trust that they are sending one tomorrow", and said she did not know how much food or water the group had left.

12.24

The Telegraph's Dean Nelson has visited Jyamdi, a village in the eastern hills above the Kathmandu Valley that wasn't simply damaged by last weekend's earthquake – many of its hamlets were left without a single house standing.

He met Hirayamaya Tamang, 48, who lost both her husband and the home they had built together and in which they had raised their four daughters.

Here is her story:

Read Dean Nelson's full dispatch from Jymadi: 'Where is our government?' ask survivors of Nepal earthquake

11.54

Ben Farmer reports that Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, is expected to announce Britain will be sending RAF Chinook transport helicopters to help with the rescue efforts in Nepal.

11.48

Hopes of finding survivors are fading fast, Tom Phillips in Kathmandu writes.

"It is a very slim chance that we will get people alive in this area," Ved Bista, a Nepali police chief, told The Telegraph during a visit to the Kathmandu Durbar Square where up to 150 people are feared to have been buried under historic temples and homes.

The deputy superintendent has been coordinating dozens of search teams operating in the Nepali capital. The emphasis was now on recovery, he admitted. "We are focused on extracting dead guys."

Foreign search and rescue groups from countries including Germany, France, Japan, Malaysia and China are still trying to put on a brave face.

Rescue workers light incense as they prepare to remove body of shopkeeper from rubble. Dambar Karki was 47. pic.twitter.com/xOerqUdbiV — Tom Phillips (@tomphillipsin) April 29, 2015

11.18

The Foreign Office has now confirmed that a British national died in the earthquake and officials are providing consular assistance to relatives. The unnamed Briton was not a UK resident.

Read the full story here by Ben Farmer.

The devastation of Jyamdi by the Nepal earthquake pic.twitter.com/zsmgo9YCw7 — Dean Nelson (@DelhiDean) April 29, 2015

10.31

AFP is reporting that there have been clashes with riot police in Kathmandu. Supplies of bottled water were also seized on Wednesday as supplies begin to run low.

According to the news agency, many of those hoping to leave the capital ended up in skirmishes with riot police and the crowd after the buses "failed to materialise". The police, AFP said, were there to "contain the situation" near Nepal's parliament.

Kishor Kavre, a 25-year-old student told AFP: "We have been waiting since dawn. They told us that there would be 250 buses coming but we haven't seen any of them."

"We're in a hurry to get home to see our families but we've no idea when they're coming now."

09.28

Nepal has told foreign search and rescue teams not to come because there are already enough in the earthquake-hit country, a senior UN official said, reports AFP.

Jamie McGoldrick, resident coordinator for Nepal, said the government had decided it had enough foreign experts in and around the capital Kathmandu, which has been devastated by a massive quake that struck on Saturday.

"They feel they have enough capacity to deal with the immediate needs in search and rescue," he told AFP.

"Those that are already en route can come but the others are being told not to."

08.22

There is more from Associated Press about the survivor rescued from the rubble of a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu.

Rishi Khanal, 27, was saved by a French rescue team and told AP how he had to drink his own urine to survive.

Mr Khanal's foot was trapped after he was hit by falling masonry and his foot was crushed during the chaotic scenes.

"I had some hope but by yesterday I'd given up. My nails went all white and my lips cracked ... I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."

It took several hours to rescue Mr Khanal after he kept "banging against the rubble". He had been trapped for 82 hours.

"There was no sound going out, or coming in. I kept banging against the rubble and finally someone responded and came to help. I hadn't eaten or had anything to drink so I drank my own urine."

"It feels good. I am thankful," he said.

07.22

Good morning and welcome to the Telegraph's live coverage of the aftermath of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal.

The latest from the news agencies is that the number of killed is 5,006, according to the home ministry. Yesterday, Sushil Koirala, the prime minister, said he believed the death toll could reach 5,000.

Associated Press reported that 31 have been arrested on suspicion of looting empty homes as well as causing panic by suggesting there will be another earthquake. Four individuals were arrested on suspicion of the latter crime.

Britain has also sent 30 medics to treat the injured and Justine Greening, the International Development Secretary, said the cost of the UK response to the earthquake including the additional support is now £15 million.

Yesterday the Foreign Office said it was looking into unconfirmed reports of a non-UK resident British national killed during the earthquake. That is still the current situation and when there is more information, we will bring that to you.

There is also the amazing story of a man who survived inside a collapsed building for more than three days and even had to drink his own urine to survive.

Rishi Khanal tells The Associated Press that he had given up all hope of rescue as his lips cracked and his nails turned white.

There were dead bodies around him and a terrible smell. But he kept banging on the rubble all around him and eventually this brought a French rescue team that extracted him after an operation lasting many hours.
</text>