<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2015/s4226972.htm
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake aid slow to arrive
</headline>

<text>
Bridget Brennan reported this story on Thursday, April 30, 2015 18:10:00

MARK COLVIN: The United Nations has launched an emergency appeal for $415 million to reach eight million people affected by the earthquake. Frustration is turning to anger, as we've heard, in remote areas of Nepal. There's a bottleneck of planes at the Kathmandu airport, waiting to deliver vital medical supplies and food.



Bridget Brennan spoke to Australian workers on the ground in Kathmandu and Gorkha.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: Five days on from the earthquake, heavy rain is adding to people's misery. Thousands of people, either homeless or too terrified to return to their houses, are sleeping outside despite the downpour.



Sarah Ireland is working in Kathmandu for Save the Children.



SARAH IRELAND: And it's raining overnight now and so for the fifth night in a row people have slept outside with minimal shelter in the rain and the cold. It is still raining today. It's been raining most of the morning.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: In wet fields and parks where people are camping, the spread of disease is becoming a serious concern.



SARAH IRELAND: Even on the drive to work this morning we passed fields full of people sleeping in their tents and this is obviously a real concern when especially when people need food, they need water and they need access to healthcare. And if they're also sleeping out in the cold, in the rain, overnight then we may start to see also the spread of diseases and more people needing to access healthcare.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: One glimpse of hope amid the desperation today, another near-miraculous story of survival. Reports say a 15-year-old boy was pulled alive from the rubble today.



Other survivors are fleeing the capital, Kathmandu. Riot police had to be called in to control crowds trying to leave the city on buses.



There's also frustration at the international airport. Aid agencies have been offloading food and supplies but many planes haven't been able to land.



World Vision Australia chief executive, Tim Costello.



TIM COSTELLO: The bottleneck at the airport means that we have distributed all the World Vision supplies that were in country and are desperately waiting on our plane to land from Dubai. It's been trying for three days so it's a narrow bottleneck at the airport.



The Nepalese have a right to feel some anger when they see aid agencies like us without enough to distribute. You can't blame them for saying "Well there's other villages here that you need to get to" and we just can't get there and we're waiting on supplies.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: Tim Costello has been visiting the Gorkha district today, but he says other remote areas are still inaccessible.



TIM COSTELLO: With the weather and cloud and rain, no helicopters can get to those inaccessible areas. We've been at the hospital today, 50 bed hospital for 270,000 people, and the extraordinary numbers of operations having to happen, from people who walked two hours and then driven five hours, who've lost loved ones, is really quite overwhelming.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: Tasmanian helicopter pilot Dougie Gray has been trying to get supplies into remote areas. He's been frustrated by the Nepalese government's response to the disaster.



DOUGIE GRAY: There's really very little outsiders can do at the moment until the government gets themselves organised and starts to be able to take control. They clearly admitted on television and newspapers that they don't know what to do.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: Editor in chief of Republica in Nepal, Subhash Ghimire, told the BBC that the relief response had been too slow.



SUBHASH GHIMIRE: There's definitely not an (inaudible). We're talking about these villages outside of the central region and mostly in western Nepal where very little has been sent so far and there's only so much that private groups and NGO's (non-government organisations) can do at this point.



So I think that largely the coordination is lacking, the relief work has been slow.



BRIDGET BRENNAN: As the death toll continues to rise, the United Nations says 1.5 million people need food immediately.



MARK COLVIN: Bridget Brennan.
</text>