<url>
http://www.rgj.com/story/life/2015/04/30/reno-flicker-hope-nepals-earthqake-victims/26621895/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
4 ways Reno can help Nepal's earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
Buy Photo Reno’s Nepalese community lit candles Wednesday at the University of Nevada, Reno in honor of the victims of Nepal’s Saturday, April 25 earthquake that had a magnitude of 7.8 and currently has a rising death toll of more than 5,000. (Photo: Jenny Kane/RGJ)Buy Photo

Updated version: Scroll down to see four organizations that are rallying support for victims of the Saturday, April 25 earthquake outside of Kathmandu, Nepal. If you know of any other local fundraisers, please contact reporter Jenny Kane at jkane@rgj.com.

While Trying to shield dozens of tea candles from the wind, about three dozen members of the local Nepalese community stood around two formations of candles during a vigil Wednesday evening on the University of Nevada, Reno campus.

One of the formations of candles spelled out "Nepal," and the other formation was in the shape of the southern Asia nation which was recently devastated by a 7.8 earthquake at 11:45 a.m. Saturday.

Two larger candles were positioned in the middle of the latter arrangement, one symbolizing the country's capital city, Kathmandu, and the other symbolizing the rural epicenter of the earthquake, which was beneath the village of Gorkha.

Official reports estimated Wednesday that more than 5,000 were killed during the nation's worst earthquake in 80 years. Unofficial reports from emergency response groups and seismic hazard analysts have predicted that the death toll could reach the tens of thousands.

"We are gathered here to remember those who were lost in the tragedy," said Bishnu Neupane, president of the Nepalese Students Association of UNR.

The association, which organized the vigil, is made up of more than three dozen Nepalese undergraduate and graduate students from the university, as well as community members who are not enrolled at the institution.

Buy Photo (Photo: Jenny Kane/RGJ)

Of the 200 or so Nepalese people in Northern Nevada, none have reported deaths within their families, as far as Neupane knows. However, about 90 percent of them no longer have homes in Nepal, and some of their families have lost several homes.

"For a country so small, and the resources we have, it's definitely a challenge," said Dinesh Adhikari, a member of the student association.

Vigil attendees huddled around the candles to have a moment of silence for Nepal's "lost ones" and its survivors, many of whom are without food, water, power and shelter.

Buy Photo (Photo: Jenny Kane/RGJ)

"Our families are living under open sky," Adhikari said, noting the current tent shortage.

More rescue and recovery efforts are needed as well, he said, since many people – both dead and alive – still are trapped beneath the rubble of former buildings.

Most of the attendees are hoping that the community will step up to the plate to support by donating to the student association, which will send money to aid organizations already stationed in Nepal.

Buy Photo (Photo: Jenny Kane/RGJ)

"We need to let those people know that we love them," said Linda Azar, who adopted her now 13-year-old daughter, Sumitra, from Nepal. "I wonder if her orphanage is still standing."

The association already has collected more than $2,000. To donate to the Nepalese Student Association's fund, go to https://sites.google.com/a/nepalese.us/nepalese-student-association/.

3 other ways you can help:

1. Soroptimist International of Truckee Meadows, a local group that supports women and children locally and throughout the world, has been partnering with the village of Thulipakori, Nepal for over 15 years. The village has sustained substantial damage as a result of the earthquake. SITM has established an emergency relief fund that will assist the village in taking care of its immediate needs for food and shelter and later in helping to rebuild. To donate go to http://sitmnv.org/ , which will take you to the donation site at the Community Foundation of Western Nevada.

In the past, Soroptimist International of Truckee Meadows has built a dormitory and provided room/board and tuition scholarships for over 900 girls to attend school at the Janata Sudarshan Multiple Campus in Thulipokhari for the last fourteen years. SITM also supports a microlending program to loan money to purchase animals (water buffalo, goats, chickens, bees) and vital seeds (tomatoes, cabbage, kale, lettuce, beans etc.) to woman's groups and individual families to increase economic stability in the region.

SITM's project will include grants to pay for immediate needs of individual families because of the earthquake damage. In one district in the village, every occupied home was destroyed. Short term aid will include, among other things, items such as tents, blankets, food, water, and clothes. Long term aid will include more permanent programs such as assistance with rebuilding their homes and replanting their crops and securing more livestock. Because the local Soroptimist Club has personal contact with the school counsel and the village elders and is an all-volunteer non-profit organization, all of the aid donations will go to help the people of the region without reduction for administrative costs. The donations are tax deductible. For more information, contact SITM President Pam Sutton at pam@crystalwindglass.com or 775-830-8388.

2. Truckee Meadows Community College is holding a fundraiser from May 6 through May 15. Students and other members of the community are asked to donate to the TMCC Student Government Association, which will then get the funds to the Nepalese Student Association at the University of Nevada, Reno. Donate at RDMT 122A or RDMT 111. For more information, call 775-673-7203 or email sga@tmcc.edu.

3. Midtown Community Yoga is holding a chant session from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday, May 3. Linda Azar, whose adopted daughter is from Nepal, will be leading the session.

Read or Share this story: http://on.rgj.com/1zuG5hJ
</text>