<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2015/s4227023.htm
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Protests in Nepal over pace of relief effort
</headline>

<text>
Samantha Hawley reported this story on Thursday, April 30, 2015 18:05:00

MARK COLVIN: Tempers are fraying in Nepal five days on from the earthquake, with protesters demanding the government do more to speed up aid distribution.



About 200 people protested outside Kathmandu's Parliament, and in the provinces angry villagers blocked trucks carrying supplies.



The quake's epicentre was near the Gorkha Valley, about 200 kilometres from the capital.



Correspondent Samantha Hawley joins us from there. What's it like there?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Well I must make clear, I'm still 30 kilometres from the epicentre, so I'm in Gorkha town. Getting into the epicentre is incredibly difficult and in fact barely anybody can get in there so the worst affected areas haven't really been reached yet. So there are people there five days on that have had no assistance whatsoever.



Now, some of these places can only be reached by helicopter but that's difficult too because of the mountainous area here and also the weather. It has cleared up now but this morning it was very cloudy but I've only seen one helicopter fly today and as you say people are becoming more desperate.



Now this town is also affected, of course, and I just spent a lot of time at a village about two kilometres from here - completely flattened Mark. You know, babies have died there, pregnant women died there crushed under the rubble. They've had no help whatsoever. Their entire village is floored and they're just sort of there dazed, wondering what to do next but there's certainly not getting any help from anyone.



MARK COLVIN: Can you give us an idea of the size of these places? How big is Gorkha town and how big are these villages that we're talking about?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Well Gorkha town itself is actually quite large. I don't know the exact population but for the entire Gorkha district it's said to be about 270,000 people and there's 1,000 villages and as I said some of these villages are so remote they're incredibly difficult to get to.



There's also been landslides and mudslides cutting off road access and, as I said, difficult also for helicopters to get in and out so this is just a mammoth task to get to the epicentre of this quake and even 30 kilometres out as I said there's great suffering going on but really no one here to help.



I also have been at the hospital this morning. They've had about 350 people there who've gone through their doors and when I asked well why is that so low? They said that's because they haven't actually got to where most people are affected yet, at the epicentre. They certainly expect that figure to rise dramatically but, you know, the concerning thing is I think that thousands of people actually haven't even received any help at all.



MARK COLVIN: And what sort of population is around the epicentre? Is that a cluster of villages around there?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Exactly. I think there's about 1,000 villages and as I - I just spoke about that one village that I've been to, I think you can replicate that 1,000 times. So if you think about that, think about the destruction that I've just seen - rubble everywhere, nothing is left standing.



They don't have any clothes left of course, they don't have much food, they have limited water, they have no shelter. If you multiply that by 1,000 you kind of get a sense of what a mammoth task the Nepalese government is facing in the wake of this quake.



MARK COLVIN: And what's the construction of the buildings in these villages? Were these all brick houses that have fallen down or timber or stone - what?



SAMANTHA HAWLEY: Mainly brick but primitive. You know, they're obviously sort of hand-made homes that had been there for a long time. They are not built to sustain an earthquake that's for sure and they couldn't. So very primitive living and small villages in the most, I must say, picturesque place in the world with such immense destruction, but you know these houses had no chance of standing up in that earthquake.



MARK COLVIN: Samantha Hawley, thank you very much.
</text>