<url>
http://www.outlookindia.com/news/article/earthquake-at-least-six-dead-in-up-cm-announces-relief/893569
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Earthquake: At Least 12 Dead in UP, CM Announces Relief
</headline>

<text>
At least 12 people were today killed and over a dozen injured in parts of Uttar Pradesh as a powerful earthquake originating in Nepal damaged houses and walls.



Three deaths each were reported from Barabanki, Gorakhpur and Sant Kabir Nagar districts, one person each died in Kanpur Dehat, Shravasti and Badaun.



Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav has announced a financial assistance of rupees five lakh to the kin of those killed in the earthquake, Rs 50,000 to grievously injured and Rs 20,000 to those having minor injuries, an official spokesman said here.



The Chief Minister has also talked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprised him of the situation in the state, the official said.



"The CM called the Prime Minister and apprised him with the measures being taken by the state government," the spokesman said.



The CM has asked state Chief Secretary and DGP along with the District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police to assess loss of life and property caused by the earthquake.



Meanwhile, a Mumbai-Kathmandu flight of the Jet Airways was diverted to Lucknow and emergency landing was made at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport here after Kathmandu Airport was closed following the earthquake this morning, officials said.



After getting information of the quake, CM Akhilesh ordered immediate closure of schools and asked top officers to take stock of the situation.



Panic gripped the patients of King George Medical University here as they came out of the ward in open area after the tremor.



At the trauma center, doctors tried to convince the patients to remain calm but they insisted on going outside.



At Rehabilitation and Artificial Limb Center (RALC), many patients came on the road along with their attendants.



According to reports from Barabanki district, a woman and two children were killed when an under-construction wall collapsed in Basantapur village in Mohammadpur Khala area.



In Gorakhpur, three persons, including a two and a half year old child, were killed, police said.



In Kanpur, people rushed out of their houses and work places after the city experiences two tremors in a gap of 15 minutes.



Two tremors were felt at around 12 pm after a gap of 15 minutes and appealed to people not to be panicked, said ADM Kanpur (City) Avinash Singh.



In Mathura, the quake that lasted for over a minute, caused cracks in the old building which housed the office of Senior Superintendent of Police forcing the officials to rush out. Also, cracks were visible on the 100-year-old building of the municipal council of the district.



In Balrampur, a temple dome in Bhagawatiganj mandi area and boundry wall of a primary school were also got damaged.



Besides, strong vibrations were felt in Etah, Farukkhabad, Noida, Pratapgarh, Mainpuri, Hathras, Aligarh, Varanasi, Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Faizabad, Firozabad and several other districts.



The tremor, which struck at around 11.45 am continued for nearly 30 seconds and recurred again at 12.15 pm.



The tremors created panic across the state forcing people to vacate their work places and high rise apartments, affecting communication and transportation services.



Reports said that buildings developed cracks in several districts of the state.



The spokesman said that reports were being collected from all the districts, specially those along the Indo-Nepal border, to assess the situation.



A strong earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale shook Nepal and several provinces in India, including the national capital, leaving a trail of devastation in the Himalayan nation.



The powerful earthquake flattened houses and buildings in Nepal, killing nearly 900 people as the worst temblor in 80 years destroyed the iconic Dharhara tower and renowned Darbar Square in the heart of the capital.

A report from Agra said a portion of the wall of S N Medical College and a school collapsed due to earthquake.



A water tank also collapsed in the district, but there were no reports of loss of lives.



District Magistrate Pankaj Kumar said there were no loss of property or life.



He made an appeal to the people to remain calm and not to react to rumours.



Panicked and shaken by the tremors, lasted for about two minutes, people and patients rushed out of the hospitals.
</text>