<url>
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-6-315564-Nawaz-toes-in-Modis-footsteps-by-setting-up-a-relief-fund
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nawaz toes in Modi’s footsteps by setting up a relief fund
</headline>

<text>
Nawaz toes in Modi’s footsteps by setting up a relief fund

Nawaz toes in Modi’s footsteps by setting up a relief fund

India may be far ahead of Pakistan when it comes to contributing to the rescue and relief efforts in quake-hit Nepal, but a special fund set up by Pakistani Premier Nawaz Sharif on Tuesday for the land-locked nation in distress is certainly a very humane gesture at the right time.

Just a day ago, Indian premier Narendra Modi had donated his one-month’s salary for assistance to those affected by the recent catastrophic earthquake in Nepal.

Modi’s gesture was practically supported by members of the Indian Lower House (Lok Sabha), who had also decided to donate their one-month salaries for the relief work in Nepal.

The April 28, 2015 edition of an Indian newspaper “Economic Times,” the world’s second-most widely read English-language business newspaper after the American “Wall Street Journal,” states: “From large conglomerates to tiny startups, corporate India is pulling out all the stops to aid the rescue mission in Nepal, offering men, money and materials on a scale never done in the past. From blankets to drinking water to medicines to food to discounted air fares to simply cash, a steadily growing parade of companies is committing resources to help the stricken neighbour, where the number of deaths crossed 4,000.”

Employees at the famous Godrej Industries India would contribute one day’s salary for the quake victims and also assist in rehabilitation and reconstruction work, Messrs Coca Cola India has sent 10,000 cases of its one-litre “Kinley” mineral water bottles, Messrs Tata Sons India is in touch with government agencies to provide financial assistance to the victims, Messrs Mahindra & Mahindra Group has asked its local distributor in Nepal to offer the company’s tractors and pick-up vehicles to the government for rehabilitation work and Messrs Surya Nepal, which is one of the largest corporate entities in Nepal, has already sent 200,000 food packets and supplied nine tones of its biscuits and instant noodles.

Proactively using online social networking services like the Twitter and Facebook to reach out to those affected in this nation located in the Himalayas, the Indian support for Nepal in this hour of need is quite natural because the two neighbours share a unique bond of friendship, which is characterised by open borders and deep-rooted people-to-people contacts of kinship and culture.

India is also the largest trading partner of Nepal, the largest source of foreign investment and of tourist arrivals.

Around 66 per cent of total Nepalese external trade is with India, which happens to be Nepal’s largest source of foreign investment, accounting for 40 per cent of the small nation’s total foreign investments.

Enjoying a bilateral trade volume of US $5.4 billion, Nepal shares a border of about 1,850 kilometres with five Indian States - Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Sikkim. An estimated six million Nepalese live and work in India.

On the contrary, the Pakistan-Nepal bilateral trade volume is hardly US$5 million. However, four Pakistan Air Force aircraft carrying special search and rescue teams had reached Nepal, where last week’s natural calamity has so far claimed over 4,100 lives.

The food items dispatched from Pakistan included 2,000 ready to eat meal packs, eatables, water bottles, medicines, 200 tents and 600 blankets.

A team of Pakistan Army doctors including specialists in surgery, gynecologists, radiologists, anesthesiologists, child specialists and paramedics was also flown in to operate a 30-bed mobile hospital donated by Islamabad, which has offered Nepal a US $5 million line of credit, despite the fact that the country housing the Mount Everest was one of the first to recognise the independence of Bangladesh in 1971. In retaliation, Islamabad had severed ties with Kathmandu just two days later.

Nepal and Pakistan had established diplomatic relations on March 29, 1960, but the two nations had exchanged ambassadors and set up embassies in 1963 after President Ayub Khan’s special visit to Kathmandu.

At present, Pakistan is providing 15 scholarships annually to the Nepalese students under the Technical Assistance Programme in medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and engineering.

The Indo-Nepal diplomatic relations are in place since 1947. India has played a leading role in helping the Nepal Army in its modernisation through provision of equipment and training. About 200 training slots are provided every year for training of Nepalese Army personnel in various Indian Army Training institutions.

By the way, during his July 2012 visit to Nepal, the then Indian Army Chief General Bikram Singh was conferred the honorary rank of General of the Nepal Army, speaking volumes of the Indo-Nepal proximity and their bilateral defence cooperation.

The Indian economic assistance extended to Nepal during fiscal 2008-09 under the “Aid to Nepal” budget was Rs1.2 billion, it was Rs1.61 billion in 2009-2010, it was increased to Rs 1.68 billion in 2010-2011, further enhanced to Rs 1.91 billion in 2011-12, generously augmented to Rs 3 billion in 2012-13, amplified to rest at Rs 3.80 billion in 2013-14 and it currently stands at Rs 4.5 billion for fiscal 2014-15.

Currently, there are around 35 Indian projects under various stages of implementation in Nepal. These include the setting up of Emergency-cum-Trauma Centre (Rs one billion), the Manmohan-Adhikari Polytechnic (Rs250 million) at Biratnagar and the construction of a Polytechnic at Hetauda (Rs380 million).

The Indian government is also providing faculty support to BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences at Dharan (Rs10 million per annum for five years), besides funding the installation of 3,700 shallow tube wells in various districts across Nepal (Rs 220 million) and helping in the construction of 421 sitting capacity auditorium at Lumbini. India has also provided 442 ambulances and 86 school buses to various agencies in Nepal.

On Monday last, as an Indian Ministry of Defence official spokesperson Sitanshu Kar had tweeted, New Delhi had sent six medical teams, a field hospital, 22 tones of food packets, five sets of earth moving equipment, a 40-member Engineering task force components, a team to check Nepal’s power grid, essential medicines, 1,000 blankets and 100 tents etc.

An Indian Air Force aircraft had also left for Kathmandu with 58 tones of water and 120 large oxygen cylinders.

About 1,000 trained personnel of the Indian National Disaster Response Force were also pressed into service as soon as Nepal was struck by the worst earthquake in 80 years.

The Indian Air force’s MI-17, carrying relief load of 3.5 tones had conducted six sorties on Monday, evacuating 87 more people.

Interestingly, Messrs SpiceJet, a low-cost Indian domestic airline flying to 46 cities across the country, had cut its base fare for evening flights to Kathmandu to only rupee one for Monday and Tuesday.

The airline had announced it would also mount two more special planes to aid evacuation of travellers stranded in the devastated Nepal, which has begun to experience the influx of an aid rush from the United States, Canada, China, Australia, New Zealand, United Arab Emirates, Britain, Germany, France, Poland, Italy, Israel and Singapore etc.


</text>