<url>
http://zeenews.india.com/news/south-asia/live-anger-in-nepal-over-slow-pace-of-relief-efforts-earthquake-toll-over-6000_1587390.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Rescue, relief ops continue in Nepal: As it happened on Thursday
</headline>

<text>
My gratitude to PM Netanyahu for his kind words on India's relief and rescue efforts in Nepal including help extended to Israeli nationals.

I spoke to Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, who had called to extend condolences on the loss of lives due to the Earthquake, tweets Narendra Modi.

India is with the people of Nepal in this hour of distress, says President Pranab Mukherjee to the new Ambassador of Nepal to India.

A Nepali teen has been rescued from rubble five days after the earthquake.

Indian, Nepali Armies rescue 84 Indians trapped in Lukla, Ziri, Manaslu and Tamakoshi.

India has speed up its relief operation in Nepal. Indian Railways provide free tickets, special travel arrangements for the evacuees.

The Indian Red Cross Society IIRCS) is augmenting its support to victims of the earthquake in Nepal. IRCS is sending in 800 family tents, 2000 tarpaulin sheets, 2000 woolen blankets and another large water purification unit (3000 litres per hour capacity) as the next batch of relief to the aid of victims.

Home Minister Rajnath Singh meets Nepal's ambassador to India Shri Deepak Kr Upadhyay in New Delhi. Upadhyay apprised Singh of the situation in the Himalayan Kingdom.

India rushes 8,450 tents to its disaster-struck eastern neighbour.

Over 10,000 stranded Indians evacuated from Kathmandu by bus to UP, Bihar and Uttarakhand, confirms embassy of India in Kathmandu.

Foreign Secretary S Jaishankar to visit Nepal tomorrow.

Madhya Pradesh government decides to send 1500 tents for the earthquake victims of Nepal.

Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar assures Nepal of India's continued support in the wake of the devastating earthquake and said that all requirements will be met as per their request.

International aid is struggling to find its way to the needy in remote areas today due to bad weather and lack of coordination. Frustration mounts among people in quake-hit Nepal over the slow pace of relief efforts.

Rescuers pull out survivor from rubble 5 days after Nepal earthquake. "A 15-year-old boy has been rescued from the rubble of a lodge called Hilton Guesthouse," says police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam.

The Indian embassy in Kathmandu reaffirms government's commitment to extend all necessary support to the people of Nepal.

A 39-member Indian Army team is currently at the Mount Everest base camp. The Army men have voluntarily remained there to assist people including stranded tourists.
</text>