<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/world/fights-break-out-over-aid-in-nepal-2015043018
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Fights break out over aid in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The strain began to take its toll in Nepal today with fights breaking out in some places where people are queuing up for food and help.

Several media outlets are reporting rescuers have pulled a teenage boy from the rubble of a building in Kathmandu five days after magnitude 7.8 earthquake hit.

The boy, 15-year-old Pema Lama, was pulled from the collapsed Hilton hotel, the Guardian reports.

After the earthquake, workers have been boosted by international search and rescue teams from Israel and China, all hoping for a miracle.

An American disaster response team had been working for hours to free the trapped man, Associated Press reports.

For all their high-tech equipment, an empty water bottle detects dangerous aftershocks, and the rescue will take an old-fashioned tunnel.

This rural hub has been a marketplace for centuries, and now 78-year-old Chandani Shakya is picking up what's left of her life.

She says she was eating lunch when the earthquake struck and destroyed the house her grandfather built.

And then with typically Nepalese graciousness, the woman who has lost everything offers food, and then blesses reporters.

At least half of this historic village has been destroyed, and it will take weeks if not months before the true cost of the earthquake is known.

When the earthquake struck just before midday last weekend, this place was packed with people from outer-lying rural communities here to buy and sell their goods.

That is the main problem - while they've recovered 74 bodies, they still have no idea how many people may be buried here.

Much-needed aid has begun to arrive in Sankhu for the first time since the quake. A local bank has turned up with water and other staples amid chaos.

At the back of the queue, there is a family who have walked for hours from their mountain village. They've had nothing since the earthquake and are desperate.

Poor locals left in chaos as foreigners flown out

A Kiwi trekking guide based in Nepal is frustrated that foreigners are being flown off Mount Everest and to safety, while the much poorer locals have no choice but to stay.

New Zealander Russell Brice says the Nepalese people in remote mountain villages are going to die if aid doesn't reach them soon.

It's a grim site, dozens of bodies wrapped in sleeping bags flown off Mount Everest and onto their final resting place.

Survivors are being ferried off too - including some American trekkers who escaped injury.

"Mountaineers on Everest, they have more money than people in Langtang and it is quite sad," says Mr Brice. "Money talks here all the time."

He says the people of the remote valley of Langtag will die if aid doesn't get there quickly.

And the damage to Mount Everest's base camp is only just becoming clear as helicopters carrying cameras finally reach the area. The camp is split into three sections. While tents can be seen at the top and bottom locations, the middle base camp has pretty much disappeared, buried under metres of snow.

This is where most people died on the mountain, including five Sherpas working for New Zealand company Adventure Consultants.

Read more:

3 News

source: newshub archive
</text>