<url>
http://www.10tv.com/content/stories/2015/04/25/nepal-earthquake-kills-hundred-of-people.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
More Than 800 People Killed In Nepal Earthquake - WBNS-10TV Columbus, Ohio | Columbus News, Weather & Sports
</headline>

<text>
A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing more than 800 people across four countries.

The violently shaking earth collapsed houses, leveled centuries-old temples and triggered avalanches in the Himalayas. It was the worst temblor to hit the poor South Asian nation in over 80 years.



At least 688 people were confirmed dead in Nepal, according to the police, 20 in India, six in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border. Officials say eight bodies have been recovered after an avalanche swept Mount Everest.



The quake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.8 struck before noon and was most severely felt in the capital as well as the densely populated Kathmandu Valley. A magnitude 6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later, and smaller aftershocks continued to ripple through the region for hours.



Dozens of people with injuries were being brought to the main hospital in central Kathmandu.



Pushpa Das, a laborer, ran from the house when the first quake struck but could not escape a collapsing wall that injured his arm.



"It was very scary. The earth was moving ... I am waiting for treatment but the (hospital) staff is overwhelmed," he said, gingerly holding his right arm with his left hand. As he spoke dozens of more people showed up with injuries, mostly from falling bricks.



The earthquake also shook several cities across northern India, and was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Following the quake, Kathmandu's international airport was shut down.



While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.



The quake's epicenter was 50 miles northwest of Kathmandu, and it had a depth of only 7 miles, which is considered shallow in geological terms. The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries, and witnesses said the trembling and swaying of the earth went on for several minutes.



As the quake began to intensify, residents ran out of homes and buildings in panic. Clouds of dust began to swirl around them. Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.



Several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers, said resident Prachanda Sual.



Among them was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.



The Kathmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.



Dozens of people were gathered in the parking lot of Kathmandu's Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas. A woman with a bandage on her head sat in a set of chairs pulled from the hospital waiting room.



Doctors and nurses hooked up some patients to IV drops in the parking lot, or were giving people oxygen.



Residents reported seeing trails of destruction, collapsed walls, broken windows and fallen telephone poles as they drove through the capital, along with streets filled with terrified people.



But scattered reports also indicated that most buildings in the capital did not collapse.



"It's too early to make any assessment but the damage isn't as bad as it could have been," said Liz Satow, the Nepal director for the air group World Vision. She said she drove from Kathmandu to the nearby town of Lalitpur and said that while there was considerable damage, most buildings were still intact.



Nepal suffered its worst recorded earthquake in 1934, which measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.



The sustained quake also was felt in India's capital of New Delhi and several other cities.

Stay with 10TV and 10TV.com for more.
</text>