<url>
http://www.theflindersnews.com.au/story/3047837/nepal-quake-shock-turns-to-anger/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: shock turns to anger
</headline>

<text>
Salina Bajracharya, a 25-year-old teacher from Bhaktapur in Nepal, is unhappy with the lack of humanitarian assitance. Photo: Matt Wade

Salina Bajracharya, a 25-year-old teacher from Bhaktapur in Nepal, is unhappy with the lack of humanitarian assitance. Photo: Matt Wade

An unstable building is demolished with ropes on a main road in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Photo: Matt Wade

Salina Bajracharya, a 25-year-old teacher from Bhaktapur in Nepal, is unhappy with the lack of humanitarian assitance. Photo: Matt Wade

Salina Bajracharya, a 25-year-old teacher from Bhaktapur in Nepal, is unhappy with the lack of humanitarian assitance. Photo: Matt Wade

Kathmandu: The deep shock caused by Saturday's earthquake in Nepal has turned to anger for many as officials struggle to deliver relief to thousands of victims.

Quake survivors have clashed with police in some parts of the Kathmandu Valley over the slow distribution of emergency supplies.

Salina Bajracharya, a teacher from the hard-hit city of Bhaktapur outside Kathmandu, said desperate locals had been fighting over scarce supplies of food and water.

"Where is the Nepal government?" she said. "Are they sleeping somewhere? They are not doing anything."

Ms Bajracharya and other locals were staging a protest at a local community centre where about 140 families with damaged homes were taking shelter.

"We are helpless here, we haven't been given anything," she said. "It has been such a disaster and now our food is almost finished."

Only one in five people have access to clean water in Bhaktapur, the United Nations estimates.

Needs are acute in remote villages that cannot be reached by road. An official in the Lalitpur District, south of the capital, said some villages not serviced by roads lacked tents, food, sanitary items and medicines.

Sections of the Nepalese media have been highly critical of the government's earthquake response.

A headline in Wednesday's edition of The Himalayan read "Govt makes a mess of relief work".

A story on the newspaper's front page said: "Relief has been pouring in from all corners of the world but the government has no clue about how to distribute it among the needy, nor is it willing to hold anyone accountable for its failure to do so."

UNICEF says around 1.7 million children are now in urgent need of aid in the areas worst-hit by the earthquake.

"The lives of so many children have been torn apart and they are in desperate need of life-saving support, including clean water, shelter and sanitation," UNICEF Nepal Representative Tomoo Hozumi said.

"Without a safe water supply, waterborne diseases remain huge risks for children. Many families are struggling simply to protect themselves from the sun and rain and we only expect needs to grow in the coming days as we receive more information from remoter areas and the full scale of the disaster becomes more apparent."

Nepal's home ministry says the number of confirmed deaths from the earthquake had risen to 5238 by Wednesday night, but the government has warned the death toll could rise above 10,000.
</text>