<url>
http://www.theage.com.au/act-news/canberras-nepalese-community-to-mourn-lost-raise-funds-at-friday-vigil-20150430-1mwnk9.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Canberra's Nepalese community to mourn lost, raise funds at Friday vigil
</headline>

<text>
Canberrans are rallying around the local Nepalese community who have lost relatives and fear for their family's safety in the wake of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Christina Hobbs, one of the organisers for the Nepal vigil, pictured with friend and former colleague Pramila Ghimire. Photo: Melissa Adams

This Friday, as a sign of solidarity, former aid worker in Nepal, Christina Hobbs, will help organise a candlelight vigil to raise funds for the traumatised nation.

"In Canberra we want to show we stand together in solidarity with our Nepalese community. There are people who have lost loved ones there," Ms Hobbs said.

The quake, that has a confirmed death count of over 5000 people so far, has left Canberra's Nepalese community in a state of constant worry for their friends and family.

"Members of my extended family have lost their homes and have been injured," Sita Ram Ghimire, ACT Coordinator of the Non-Resident Nepalese Association, said.

Advertisement

While Mr Ghimire has lived in Canberra for six years, members of his family live in the Gorkha district, a rural and mountainous region, where there are reports of people spending days without food and water.

Ironically, Ms Hobbs worked on disaster preparedness for earthquakes during her three years in Nepal.

"Nepal has this fault line that comes off every 75-77 years and this was the 80th year since it has gone off so it was almost overdue," she said.

Ms Hobbs said one of her Nepalese friends who now lives in Canberra and is also helping with the vigil, has been traumatised by the dangerous aftershocks.

"My colleague is having to live through the terror of her daughter calling her every time there is an aftershock," Ms Hobbs said.

In areas affected by the quake, drinking water, hospital beds, gasoline, electricity and sanitary facilities are in short supply, and some have resorted to staging sometimes-dangerous protests.

Ms Hobbs said local Nepalese are horrified to hear some of their family and friends are camping outside in tents, waiting for provisions and living under tough conditions.

"Knowing your relatives are in that situation, living through this very dangerous time, has been really hard for them," she said.

The vigil in Garema Place will start at 5.30pm and those attending can buy a candle to donate to the Nepal Prime Minister's National Relief Fund.

UNHCR and Oxfam are also accepting donations for victims of the quake.
</text>