<url>
http://ewn.co.za/2015/04/30/Nepal-SA-aid-group-attempts-to-make-contact-with-stranded-SA-couple
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal: Group tries to make contact with SA couple
</headline>

<text>
The South African rescue team has now been granted access to a hospital in Kathmandu.

NEPAL - The Gift of the Givers on Thursday said it trying to make contact with a South African couple Mike Sherman and Kate Ahrends stranded in Langtang in Nepal following the deadly earthquake.

An official from Nepal's home ministry said the number of confirmed deaths from the 7.8 magnitude earthquake had risen to 5,582 by Thursday afternoon, while almost 11,200 people were injured.

The South African rescue team has now been granted access to a hospital in Kathmandu.

Sherman briefly spoke to Eyewitness News earlier.

It is not yet clear if he made it onto the helicopter that landed at the army camp in Dhunche.

He confirmed that he and Ahrends are safe.

LISTEN: MOTHER OF MAN TRAPPED IN NEPAL FEARS FOR HIS SAFETY

The South African team's search and rescue operation has been hampered with limited equipment after some luggage was left behind.

The team moved into an area to assess the extent of the damage.

Most of the collapsed buildings were constructed with poor quality material.

Cleanup operations underway in Nepal. Picture: Mia Lindeque/EWN

More than 30 South African medical workers are expected to join the Gift of the Givers team in Kathmandu.

For the past two days the South African team has not been able to search for any survivors still trapped under rubble.

Meanwhile, displaced citizens have taken shelter in tents with others sleeping in the open too afraid to enter buildings.

BOY RESCUED IN KATHMANDU RUBBLE, SOME VILLAGERS STILL STRANDED

Hundreds of onlookers cheered as rescuers toiling amid the rubble left by Nepal's earthquake pulled a boy to safety on Thursday after he had been trapped for five days, a rare moment of joy for a country struggling to cope with the disaster.

Officials said the chances of finding more survivors were fading as the death toll exceeded 5,500. But Nepal's Armed Police Force managed to save 15-year-old Pema Lama from the collapsed ruins of Kathmandu's Hilton Hotel."I saw the police drilling for four hours to remove mounds of debris before they could pull him out," said Ambar Giri, a medical worker who was at the scene.

Anger over the pace of the rescue has flared up in some areas, with Nepalis accusing the government of being too slow to distribute international aid that flooded into the country.

It has yet to reach many in need, particularly in remote areas hard to access given the quake damage and poor weather.Tensions between foreigners and Nepalis desperate to be evacuated have also surfaced. In Langtang valley, where 150 people are feared trapped, a helicopter pilot was taken hostage by locals demanding to be evacuated first, one report said.

"ON OUR OWN"

In Ashrang village in Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts about four hours by road from Kathmandu, hundreds of Nepali villagers were living out in the open with little food and water despite boxes of biscuits, juices and sacks of rice and wheat being stored in a nearby government office.

Police commandos shut the high iron gates of the building, refusing people access while they counted the relief supplies.

"We told them we can manage without their help," said Mohammad Ishaq, a school teacher, who had been offered four plastic sheets. "It is as if we are doing everything on our own, feeding our people, tending to the sick."

The Gift of the Givers team walking through an area where scores of buildings collapsed during the quake. Picture: Mia Lindeque/EWN

But district facilitator Dipendra Shrestha said the local administration was doing what it could to get aid to victims and help foreign teams offering rescue and medical support.

"Owners are refusing to rent out vehicles," he said. "We only have 20 at the moment. We need many more."

A German search and rescue team in the area was shifting focus to medical work, because villagers had managed to dig bodies and survivors from the remains of mud and brick homes themselves.

In the capital, a Nepali-French rescue team pulled a 28-year-old man, Rishi Khanal, from a collapsed apartment block on Tuesday after he had spent around 80 hours trapped in a room with three dead bodies.

"I managed to take out the handkerchief from my pocket, soaked it with my urine and squeezed it in my mouth," Khanal told Reuters on Thursday, a day after he had one of his legs amputated. "It gave me some energy to shout and I survived."

But he wondered how he would live with his injury, which would prevent him from working in the Middle East or on a farm in Nepal.

"I don't even have the money to buy a wheelchair now. How will I spend the rest of my life and support my family?

"In another tale of escape, a young girl worshipped by many as a living goddess survived Saturday's earthquake near one of the royal palaces in Kathmandu where most other buildings were flattened.

"Her temple stands intact because of her divine powers," Pratap Man Shakya, the girl's father, told Reuters.

APPEAL FOR HELICOPTERS

Nepal is appealing to foreign governments for more helicopters. There are currently about 20 Nepali army, private and Indian army helicopters involved in rescue operations, according to Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, a home ministry official.

China is expected to send helicopters on Thursday, he said.Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told Reuters earlier this week the death toll from the quake could reach 10,000, with information on casualties and damage from far-flung villages and towns yet to come in.

Stray dogs are everywhere in the wreckage. Picture: Mia Lindeque/EWN

That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake, the last disaster on this scale to hit the nation of 28 million people sandwiched between India and China.

In Kathmandu and other cities, hospitals quickly overflowed with injured soon after the quake, with many being treated out in the open or not at all.

"The new waves of patients are those who survived the quake, but are sick because they were living in the open and drinking contaminated water," said Binay Pandey, a doctor at the government-run Bir Hospital in the capital.

Pandey said at least 1,200 patients suffering from water-borne illnesses had been admitted in the hospital since Wednesday morning.

Sporadic rains made it difficult for students and volunteers to clean the streets and dispose of garbage.

In the Himalayas, climbing is set to reopen on Mount Everest next week after damage caused by avalanches triggered by the quake is repaired.

A massive avalanche wiped out a swath of Everest base camp, killing 18 climbers and sherpa mountain guides on Saturday. Many climbers have abandoned their ascent of Everest, the world's tallest peak.
</text>