<url>
http://www.wimbledonguardian.co.uk/news/12920460.Updated__Community_pulls_together_to_help_devastated_Nepal_after_earthquake_kills_and_injures_thousands/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Community pulls together to help devastated Nepal after earthquake kills and injures thousands
</headline>

<text>
A local man is helping lead a relief effort in devastated Nepal as the community pulls together to raise vital funds in the aftermath of the earthquake.

Rocky Gurung has been appealing on Facebook for supplies and funds desperately needed to help people stranded in remote villages around Kathmandu, after the earthquake struck on Saturday, killing an estimated 5,000 people with tens of thousands injured or homeless.

From yesterday: Gingerbread and donations to help victims of Nepal earthquake

A mammoth rescue operation is underway as buildings have been reduced to rubble and historic monuments destroyed.

Mr Gurung, a Nepalese man who lived in Morden before returning to his native country last year, is assisting a team of six doctors and six nurses in Dhading, to the west of the capital.

In a Facebook appeal from the remote village today, Rocky Gurung, pictured below, said: "A quick update: we have finally reached Dhading, situation is much worse than expected, more than 10 villages have been devastated.

"We are in dire need of clean drinking water, blankets and tents."

Morden has a large number of Nepalese residents who are doing all they can to help the earthquake victims, but other residents and even schoolchildren are helping too.

Colliers Wood resident Rhys Prosser volunteered with an organisation called Restless Development in Dolakha, a rural area of Nepal in 2013.

A fundraising page set up by the International Citizen Service, a scheme funded by the Department for International Development, where he works has already collected £1,235, with more coming in every day.

School children in Wimbledon have raised £1,300 by baking and selling 200 gingerbread men in aid of Save the Children’s Nepal Earthquake Appeal.

The youngsters from Rowans School in Drax Avenue, held the bake sale at the school on Tuesday, pictured below.

Candle-lit vigils were held on Tuesday evening in Trafalgar Square in London and in Lawrence Weaver Hall in Morden to remember the victims.

The vigil in Trafalgar Square. Picture: Alice Foster

Merton Council has opened a book of condolence at the Civic Offices in Morden, and council leader Stephen Alambritis has written to the Nepalese Embassy to express condolences on behalf of the borough.

Deependra Lama and Drishya Gurung of the South London Nepalese and Ghurka Association (SLNGA) based in Morden are anxiously awaiting news of cousins and friends who are still missing.

The vigil held in Morden last night

Drishya Gurung, 24, who lives in Lower Morden, said: "I was born and raised in Kathmandu, it is really sad.

"My family are still there and most of them are safe but there are a few we haven’t heard from.

"Maybe they are safe and it is a poor network - connections are down and there is not much electricity.

"We are praying they are safe."

He said it was a shock when he heard the news and his family immediately started contacting their friends and relatives to check they were safe.

His grandparents who live in Kathmandu were eating lunch when disaster struck. He said they tried to stand up but the power of the earth’s movement meant they couldn’t. They are fine.

SLNGA and Children of Gurkhas have launched appeals for donations. SLNGA was founded by the late Colliers Wood councillor Gam Gurung, pictured below, who was a Ghurkha solder, and grew up in the Himalayas.

It champions the rights of Ghurkhas in the UK.

The Disaster Emergency Committee (DEC) has also started an appeal for donations. Visit www.dec.org.uk to donate.

The Foreign Office has advised that any British Nationals in need of consular assistance call 020 7008 0000 or text NEPAL to +447860 010 026.
</text>