<url>
http://www.newstalk.com/reader/47.301/46206/0/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Two Irish citizens still unaccounted for after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Two more Irish people have been located in Nepal, reducing to two the number of Irish unaccounted after the deadly earthquake there last Saturday.

In total, 160 Irish people are known to be in Nepal and contact has been made with 158.

Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan says there is no indication that any of these have been harmed in any way.

He told Newstalk.com's Shona Murray that the Irish consular department will continue its activities in locating them.

On Monday, Mr Flanagan and Minister of State Seán Sherlock approved aid of up to €1m for the humanitarian response in Nepal.

Earlier a boy (15) was pulled from the rubble of Nepal's quake, five days after the disaster.

Rescuers freed the teenager from a collapsed home in Kathmandu - just as hopes had begun to fade of finding survivors alive.

Meanwhile, climbing is to resume on Mount Everest by next week despite an earthquake-triggered avalanche that left 18 people dead.

The avalanche ripped through base camp and destroyed ladders through the treacherous Khumbu icefall higher up the mountain.

But Nepal tourism chief Tulsi Gautam advised climbers against abandoning their expeditions, saying repairs were under way.

Protests outside parliament

It comes amid growing anger in the country over the time it is taking to distribute aid.

About 200 people protested outside the parliament in capital Kathmandu, demanding more buses to go to their homes in remote parts of the Himalayan nation.

In Sangachowk village, one of the worst-hit districts about three hours by car from the capital, scores of angry villagers blocked the road with tyres.

The mob stopped two trucks heading for the district capital transporting rice, noodles and biscuits.

They later blocked a convoy of three army trucks with relief supplies, prompting a tense stand-off with armed soldiers.

"We have been given no food by the government," said Udhav Giri (34).

"Trucks carrying rice go past and don't stop. The district headquarters is getting all the food."

The government has struggled to fully assess the devastation caused by Saturday's 7.9-magnitude quake.

Nepal's Communication Minister, Minendra Rijal, has admitted authorities made mistakes, saying: "This is a disaster on an unprecedented scale. There have been some weaknesses in managing the relief operation."



The number of confirmed deaths has risen to nearly 5,500. Almost 10,000 were injured in Nepal, and more than 80 were also killed in India and Tibet.

Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has warned the death toll could reach 10,000, with information on casualties and damage from far-flung villages and towns yet to come in.

It comes after a four-month-old baby boy was rescued after surviving 22 hours under rubble following Saturday's earthquake.
</text>