<url>
http://www.myarklamiss.com/story/d/story/update-nela-residents-rescued-in-nepal/66065/k_i399dHPUCWLJdz4UsbXA
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
UPDATE: NELA Residents Rescued in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
UPDATE: Ralph Abraham and David Vitter provide statements on the Northeast Louisiana residents rescued in Nepal.

Abraham Statement on Nepal Rescue:

Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in reference to the recently-rescued group of Americans who were stranded in Nepal.

“I’m overjoyed that this group will be coming home safely. They’ve survived a harrowing ordeal, and I know they’re ready to get back to Louisiana and see their families. I would ask that everybody keep Nepal in your prayers because thousands of people are hurting right now,” Dr. Abraham said.

Dr. Abraham personally spoke with senior officials with the State Department to receive updates on their efforts to rescue the group. He worked closely with Sen. David Vitter, who took the lead among the Louisiana delegation in coordinating information between the State Department and Congressional Offices. The two leaders made it clear throughout the ordeal that although the scope of the devastation in Nepal was vast, they believed this group needed to be a priority for rescue.

UPDATE from Vitter on Rescues in Nepal:

The Louisiana citizens and others U.S. and Canadian citizens who were part of a travel group in Nepal have been rescued. Sen. David Vitter spoke with Doug Walton with the group this morning at 9:10 am CT who confirmed that all of the Americans with the group were safe in a hotel and in good spirits.

We will be getting official word from the Katmandu Consular Office this morning about details of their return, but the Louisiana citizens are safe. Their scheduled ticketed return flight is scheduled for May 6.

After the Nepal Earthquake, we were notified of a group of U.S. citizens who were traveling in Nepal as part of an art trip. The group made contact immediately after the earthquake; however there was no contact with the group for more than 36 hours.



Sen. David Vitter immediately initiated contact with the U.S. State Department, U.S. Embassy in Nepal, Red Cross, U.S. Pacific Command and U.S. AID to have them assist in making contact with the U.S. Citizens. He has spoken directly to State Department Officials and we have been getting frequent updates from the U.S. Embassy and also family members who were able to make contact after the initial hiatus.

----------------------------------------

Ruston -- A group of U.S citizens are stranded in Nepal. Among them, former Louisiana Tech professor, Douglas Walton, as well as four other Monroe and Ruston residents."They had been trying to go on the second leg of their trip over there in that area from Nepal into Tipet and they were pretty much at the border and they were ready to cross in and the earthquake happened," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant, says the group is unharmed but desperate for a way out."They are working really hard to get a private agency over there to helicopter in and get them. As soon as they can pin point where they are and extract them from the situation," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.It has been nearly two days since any communication with the group members. That being one of the biggest concerns."No food, no sanitation, no water to speak of. So things were getting a little dicey and that evening is the last time that any of our group has heard from the group over there," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.Several members of Louisiana's Congressional Delegation have reached out to the U.S State Department, U.S. Embassy in Nepal and Red Cross for help in contacting the travelers."They've been wonderful. All three of our congress offices and the red cross. They've been in touch with me so they are aware of our group over there and that's a key thing," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.Weather permitting, a private tour organization is scheduled to facilitate in getting the tourists to safety."There is a possibility that they could get a helicopter over there tomorrow morning which I think that means sometime tonight here. So that could mean that we hear something tonight," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.Families and friends are ready and hopeful for their safe return."We're positive but...but we're ready for them to come home," says Marlen Waters, Walton's assistant.
</text>