<url>
http://www.yorkpress.co.uk/news/12923623.NEPAL_DISASTER__York_quake_survivor_arrives_back_at_Heathrow/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
NEPAL DISASTER: York quake survivor arrives back at Stansted
</headline>

<text>
A YORK teacher has said he was lucky to escape alive from the Nepalese earthquake.

Roger Strachan, 19, from York, was among the first off the plane at Stansted Airport last night as more than 100 Britons left stranded in Nepal were reunited with their families.

He was on the first UK aid flight carrying 120 people home, which landed at a private hangar at Stansted shortly after 3am today.

Mr Strachan had been in Nepal working as a voluntary teacher.

He said: "I was in a restaurant in Kathmandu when the quake hit.

"We hid under a table while the building was shaking very violently and cracking and we were very lucky to escape."

He said that now he is home he hopes to raise money for the communities he taught.

"We must remember there are thousands of Nepalese people living in very squalid shelters even at this moment and in a much more threatened position than we were in.

"We need to make sure this isn't forgotten in the news."

Among those on board the Department for International Development (DfID) chartered Boeing 767 - which flew aid out to Nepal on Sunday - were children and the elderly and people chosen as a priority because of health conditions.

Some spoke of their lucky escapes and said they had seen many people, mainly locals, who had suffered far worse.

Earlier Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed the first British fatality, while officials are "urgently investigating" reports that another Briton has been killed at Mount Everest base camp.

Some 300 British citizens have been housed in the embassy in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday, claiming more than 5,000 lives.

Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.

A Department for International Development spokesman said there were thought to be between 500 and 1,000 Britons in Nepal. Most are safe but some have been unable to make contact with loved ones because of the collapse of communications infrastructure.

Mr Hammond earlier said hundreds of Britons had now been accounted for but the situation remained "extremely challenging" because of widespread infrastructure damage caused by the earthquake, landslides and avalanches.

Search and rescue teams, medics and armed services from the UK are on the ground helping those in need, he added.

Mr Hammond said: "Our teams are working closely with the Nepalese army and authorities to locate British nationals in remote areas and get them to safety.

"We know that this is an agonising time for those who are waiting for news of loved ones.

"But the scale of the disaster and the limited communications means that it may be some time before we can account for everyone. Many are likely to be in a place of safety but not able to communicate easily."

Some £19 million had been donated to the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) Nepal Earthquake Appeal just a day after it was launched, while Britain is preparing to send RAF Chinook helicopters to Nepal to help with the relief effort.

More than 5,000 people have been killed in the tragedy, but Nepal's prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could eventually rise to more than 10,000.

Eight million people have been affected by the disaster which has wiped out entire villages, according to the United Nations.

British ambassador to Nepal, John Rankin, said the conditions remained very difficult across the country and that rescue efforts were being hampered by bad weather.

He said: "The remote areas of Nepal in normal circumstances are difficult to reach ... the earthquake ... has made it more difficult.

"We are working round the clock to trace British nationals."

More than 300 had been helped so far, he added, but confirmed the death of one British dual national.

While there remained huge challenges, he said, he commended the effectiveness of the initial rescue operation, led by the Nepalese army on the ground.

He added: "The key issue now is the longer-term one of getting the medical supplies, shelter, water, sanitation to people."
</text>