<url>
http://www.knoe.com/home/headlines/Louisiana-travelers-stranded-in-Nepal-quake-aftermath-safe-and-in-good-spirits-301899531.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Louisiana travelers stranded in Nepal quake aftermath safe and in "good spirits"
</headline>

<text>
The Louisiana residents and others U.S. and Canadian citizens who were part of a travel group in Nepal have been rescued.

Both Senator David Vitter and U.S. Congressman Ralph Abraham spoke with Doug Walton with the group Thursday morning who confirmed all of the Americans with the group were safe in a hotel and in good spirits.

Senator Vitter says he will be getting official word from the Katmandu Consular Office about details of their return, but the Louisiana citizens are safe. Their scheduled ticketed return flight is scheduled for May 6th.

U.S. Citizens in Nepal

Janice Louise Quiet (Monroe, La.)

Melvin Douglas Walton (Ruston, La.)

Susan Stone Miksa (Monroe, La.)

Rudolf Benjamin Miksa Monroe, La.)

Beverly Brooks Brown (Huntsville, Ala.)

Jaye Catherine Clare (Colorado)

Steven Leslie Kurtz (Gulfbreeze, Florida)

Janis Carolyn Kurtz Gulfbreeze Florida)

Jo Anne Long (Port Charlotte, Florida)

There were additional people from Canada traveling in this group.

Timeline

April 5 The group left USA for Dubai, then left Dubai on April 18 for Nepal. The Trip was led by former La Tech Professor Douglas Walton.

Saturday, April 25 The 7.8 magnitude quake struck an area between the capital, Kathmandu, and the city of Pokhara.

Saturday, April 25 1 a.m. CST Douglas Walton makes contact to USA, contacts Marlen Waters in Ruston.

Saturday, April 25 evening CST K. Miksa spoke briefly to her parents. They have not heard from them since.

Sunday, April 26 Vitter contacted State Dept., Embassy and Red Cross

Monday, April 27 There was still no contact with the group, however Vitter’s office continued to pressure State Dept. and other federal agencies for answers, and details about specific efforts.

Wednesday, April 29 night CST All of the Americans with this particular group were accounted for.

Thursday, April 30 9:10 a.m. CST Vitter spoke with Doug Walton who confirmed that all of the Americans with the group were safe in a hotel and in good spirits.

Comments from U.S. representative Ralph Abraham:

Congressman Abraham has spoken with Doug Walton, the Ruston resident who led the tour group. Mr. Walton said he and the rest of the group are tired but healthy.

Congressman Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in reference to the recently-rescued group of Americans who were stranded in Nepal.

“I’m overjoyed that this group will be coming home safely. They’ve survived a harrowing ordeal, and I know they’re ready to get back to Louisiana and see their families. I would ask that everybody keep Nepal in your prayers because thousands of people are hurting right now,” Dr. Abraham said.

Dr. Abraham personally spoke with senior officials with the State Department to receive updates on their efforts to rescue the group. He worked closely with Sen. David Vitter, who took the lead among the Louisiana delegation in coordinating information between the State Department and Congressional Offices. The two leaders made it clear throughout the ordeal that although the scope of the devastation in Nepal was vast, they believed this group needed to be a priority for rescue.


</text>