<url>
http://www.mmtimes.com/index.php/national-news/14186-relief-for-tourists-after-pokhara-flights-resume.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Relief for tourists after Pokhara flights resume
</headline>

<text>
The atmosphere at Nepal’s Pokhara airport was one of chaos mingled with relief as planes finally took off from the tourist town where visitors had been trapped since a 7.8 earthquake hit the country on April 25.

Travellers – who had faced days of uncertainty and lack of information about when they would be able to get flights to Kathmandu and from there out of the country – cheered when the first domestic flight touched down on the tarmac at Pokhara on the afternoon of April 27.

A Yeti Airlines aircraft had been on standby in the capital waiting for the green light to begin its shuttle missions. Rumbling aftershocks continued to send tremors through the ground in the days following the quake, and Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan airport was prioritising emergency responses.

Confusion and misinformation led some passengers to miss international flights out of Kathmandu, which they’d booked in the belief that they would be able to fly from Pokhara that morning.

Australian Jasmine Riley, 19, who on the afternoon of April 27 was still waiting for a seat on the Yeti Airlines plane as it shuttled back and forth between Pokhara and the capital, said she’d received a verbal agreement on April 26 that she’d be able to fly out of Pokhara at 9 am on April 27.

She had bought a connecting flight due to leave Kathmandu for Sydney at 1:30 pm, but it departed while she was still stuck in Pokhara.

“It’s kind of hard because I just haven’t known what’s been going on for the past few hours,” she said.

Those who managed to get on the first Yeti Airlines flights from Pokhara arrived at Tribhuvan to witness the arrival of international rescue teams.

Large planes and helicopters – some from the Indian Air Force – loomed near the runway as the Pokhara flight touched down. Men in camouflage trooped into a gray helicopter bearing its logo as the relieved travellers made their way from Yeti Airlines craft.

Some of the passengers, hoping to leave Nepal as soon as possible, headed to their country’s embassies where they joined other foreign nationals seeking shelter as they waited to fly out of the devastated city.

Many expressed concerns that recovery operations were not progressing at the level they needed to.

At the US embassy on April 27, American physiotherapy intern Kathryn Rodrigues, 21, told The Myanmar Times she had seen the military in Kathmandu but that she had yet to witness proof of wide-scale cleanup. “I’m hoping they stepped up their game,” she said.

Trekking company managing director Phanden Sherpa, whose home village had been damaged by the quake, echoed her concerns.

“Nepal’s government helps, but not that much. I hope the Nepal government and also other countries will support [us],” he said.

International aid has already started arriving in the city, but in the meantime locals have been offering each other what support they can.

Mr Phuri Kitar Sherpa, owner of Himalayan Friends Trekking, has organised a shelter on the same street as his office using tents and tarps from his company to construct temporary housing in an open lot and supplying potable mineral water.

The makeshift camp provides a point where people can access sustenance as well as medicines, which he said he can obtain from the US embassy. Fears are rising that disease will start to spread in the ruined capital.

And he said people were already “running out” of food and water.

The trekking company owner also expressed fears for those living in outlying areas. His own home village had been devastated by the quake, he said.

“Right now, the government is trying its best, but today I was in the airport and I saw a lot of villages up there in the mountain collapsed,” he said.
</text>