<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-uk-aid-team-igi-airport-security-delhi-twitter/1/432871.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: UK aid team breach security at Delhi airport
</headline>

<text>
It has come to light that a rescue team which arrived from the United Kingdom on Monday for operations in earthquake-hit Nepal, violated the safety norms of the Delhi IGI Airport. The team allegedly waited in front of an aircraft at the 'apron area' of the airport for about six hours before they could fly to Kathmandu.

According to the members of the British rescue team, after waiting for all those hours, they were accommodated in a flight of the Spanish Air Force.

According to a senior civil aviation official, it was a case of gross violation of safety rules. The DGCA can take action against the agencies that were responsible for the violation.

"DGCA had earlier punished various airlines for committing such a violation. This particular British team had dogs with them and they were in front of the aircraft for six hours. It's scary," a senior DGCA official said after seeing the photographs of the group that were posted by a rescue team member on Twitter.

An immigration official said the British group comprised 15-20 personnel from the UK Fire and Rescue team. They reached Delhi IGI Airport around 5.30 pm on Monday. But due to weather and other clearance issues, they were asked to wait at the airport.

"The team didn't have proper clearances. India keeps a watch on every unit and aircraft flying to Kathmandu through Delhi. Airport officials asked them to wait but instead of going to the terminal building, these rescue team members waited in front of the nosewheel of an aircraft," a senior airport official told Mail Today.

Later, when the Indian agencies told them that the weather in Kathmandu was not favourable and it was packed with aircraft, the British rescue team members arranged their materials on their own, the official said.

After almost an hour they managed to convince the Spanish Air Force officials, who agreed to fly these British rescue team members to Kathmandu.

"Even then, the rescue team members didn't go inside the airport. No security official asked them to move from there. They remained there for more than three hours," a senior immigration official said.

"They had equipment which needed to be checked by various agencies. Also, they didn't take proper permission due to which they were asked to wait. But, they ignored all security rules and stayed there in front of an aircraft," a senior airport official said.

According to a senior official of the ministry of civil aviation, "No one is allowed to wait in front of an aircraft. Even the passengers are not allowed to put their baggage near to the plane."

The team reportedly left Delhi around 12 midnight and reached Kathmandu around 2 am.

Members of the British rescue team headed to Nepal posted photos of them waiting at IGI Airport on Twitter.

The relief and rescue operations being carried out by India are not the only way we are helping quake-ravaged Nepal. India is also facilitating the movement of various international rescue teams as the IGI Airport has turned into a transit hub.

According to sources, the Delhi airport has become a hub for the aircraft of various countries such as Russia, Canada, Belgium and the Netherlands.

An airport official said the traffic of non-scheduled flights has increased by almost 20 per cent since the April 25 earthquake in Nepal. The official added that the Indian agencies, including the air traffic controller (ATC), Delhi airport operator DIAL, the CISF, the Delhi Police and others, are helping international rescue teams who have set up base at Delhi IGI Airport.

The official added that there are three Russian military aircraft, one Canadian, one Belgium, two of Spanish Air Force, one Dutch and one aircraft from the Netherlands government at the IGI Airport.

"Since last Friday, various international agencies are cocoordinating rescue operations from Delhi as there is no way to reach Kathmandu directly," a senior airport official said on Wednesday.

Besides facilitating the international teams, various Indian agencies have set up counters to help people coming from Nepal. The Indian Railways has opened reservation counters at the airport itself to provide immediate rail tickets to people landing in Delhi from quake-hit Nepal to help them undertake their journey to home in a smooth manner.

IndiGo and SpiceJet are also helping travellers to reach Delhi by providing cheap tickets. Both airlines are also said to be supplying food and other materials free of cost to Nepal.

Two teams of Indian volunteers have also been sent to open langars to feed about 20,000 people in Nepal every day.
</text>