<url>
http://www.indcatholicnews.com/news.php?viewStory=27325
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
CAFOD thanks public for 'phenomenal' response to Nepal quake appeal
</headline>

<text>
Caritas Nepal food distribution in Dhobighat, Kathmandu - where 500 people are taking refuge Image: Caritas Australia]

CAFOD's Matthew Carter has thanked the British public for their "phenomenal" donations to the DEC Nepal Earthquake Appeal, but stressed that it will take years for the country to recover.

Matthew told BBC News that the generosity of the British public was "phenomenal", after the Disasters Emergencies Committee announced that their Nepal Earthquake appeal had raised £19 million in just 24 hours - but he warned against expecting a quick recovery. "This is long-term major reconstruction," he said. "There are immediate needs - shelter, water, food. But in the long term there needs to be rebuilding of an infrastructure that's just been devastated."

CAFOD is already working with its partner Caritas Nepal to provide food and emergency shelter, and has a team on the ground focusing on water and sanitation in order to prevent the spread of disease. Caritas Nepal is working in Kathmandu and is rapidly scaling up operations in four remote areas across the country.

However, the climate, terrain and remoteness of many of the villages that were hit will create enormous challenges for aid agencies. Nepal is one of the world's poorest countries, and its transport network was limited even before the earthquake: one-third of the population live two or more hours walk from the nearest all-season road, and now many of those roads are themselves cut off.

Matthew Carter told BBC News: "£19 million is amazing but we need more support... This isn't a short fix. We're going to be there for the long term, like in Haiti and the Philippines, for the next three to five years."

Immediately after the Philippines typhoon of 2013, CAFOD worked with local partners to provide immediate aid to tens of thousands of people, but the long-term recovery work - building disaster-resistant homes, sustainable water and sanitation systems, and helping people to earn an income again - is still ongoing.

CAFOD and its partners in the Caritas network aim to undertake long-term reconstruction after major emergencies, helping communities to "build back better".

In Nepal, CAFOD's work with local partners will continue long after the television cameras have departed.

Matthew Carter stressed that local organisations like Caritas Nepal were at the forefront of the response, often working through churches or other faith institutions to reach some of the most vulnerable communities. He said that volunteers in Nepal were already doing a remarkable job. "It's local people who rally together," he said, "and with our funding and support they're going to do great things."

To donate to CAFOD's Nepal Earthquake Appeal, go to: www.cafod.org.uk/Nepal
</text>