<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3061418/Nepal-quake-raises-fears-India-s-borders-IB-officials-fear-terrorists-enter-country-disguised-victims.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake raises fears over India's borders as IB officials fear terrorists could enter the country disguised as victims
</headline>

<text>
In the aftermath of the devastating earthquake, the Indo-Nepal border has become vulnerable to terrorist infiltration.

Taking advantage of chaos along the Indo-Nepal border, members of several terrorist groups may enter India with sinister designs.

The Intelligence Bureau (IB) in its latest communiqué has sent an alert to Uttar Pradesh to intensify vigil at the border in Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Lakhimpur Kheri and Pilibhit in the state.

Destroyed villages sit on mountain tops near the epicenter of the massive earthquake, in the Gorkha District of Nepal

A checkpoint at the Nepal border. Intelligence agencies fear the Indo-Nepal border has become vulnerable to terrorist infiltration

The agencies have alerted the UP Police about an increase in terrorist activities along the border. Indian aid is being escorted mostly road

“It has become impossible for the forces to keep an eye on every person entering India from Nepal after the devastating earthquake in that country.

"The Uttar Pradesh government has opened several camps along the border to provide relief to the affected people of Nepal.

"In this situation it is our duty to ensure a hassle-free passage these people. But terrorists have got an opportunity to enter India in the guise of earthquake victims.

"The Intelligence Bureau has said that members of the anti-India forces may have entered India,” a senior intelligence officer said.

Inspector General of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) Ram Kumar said: “We are keeping close vigil along the Indo-Nepal border. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), local police, ATS and other agencies have been working to prevent any infiltration.”

He admitted that the terrorists could also enter India in the guise of relief workers. Meanwhile, Nazir Khan, IG of SSB visited Sonauli border in Maharajganj district on Tuesday and took stock of the situation.

He said that while it was their duty to ensure that the people in the camps get food and medicines, security was still their top priority.

“We cannot afford to keep our eyes away from those who are entering India through Nepal border,” he said.

SSB Director General Banshi Dhar Sharma also visited the Nautanwa area in Maharajganj to take stock of the situation.

The Uttar Pradesh government has brought over 6,000 people in 106 buses from Nepal and kept them at several relief camps.

Two-hundred buses have been sent to Kathmandu to escort those rendered homeless in the earthquake.

Over a dozen camps have also been set up along the border. With the attention now on sending relief via road, an extra vigil on the Indo-Nepal border is required as thousands of people are expected to arrive in India.

The officials said that a convoy of 80 buses has already passed via cross-bored roads. The Indian Government want to stop sending relief by air and use roads.

China triples aid to Nepal

By Ananth Krishnan in Beijing

China announced on Wednesday that it would provide a second batch of humanitarian aid to Nepal worth US$ 6.54million, tripling its aid to the quake-hit country.

Around 300 Chinese personnel from military and humanitarian rescue teams have been pressed into action in the search for survivors.

China sent a 62-member International Rescue Team arrived only around 24 hours after the quake struck in Nepal

In a demonstration of Beijing's unusually proactive diplomatic and humanitarian response to the tragedy — a response that many diplomats in the Chinese capital described as a marked contrast to a slow-moving and much criticised reaction to the typhoon that hit the Philippines in 2013 — authorities said on Wednesday they planned to increased the $3.4million aid announced on Sunday as well as press more personnel into action.

The ministry of commerce said a second batch of $6.54million aid, including water purification equipment, first-aid kits, tents and blankets, will be delivered to Nepal as soon as possible, the official Xinhua news agency reported.

A detailed statement describing China’s response to the quake — which also caused severe damage in remote Tibetan towns, killing at least 25 people and injuring close to 400 — pointed out that China’s 62-member International Rescue Team arrived only around 24 hours after the quake struck, reaching Kathmandu at noon on Sunday.

This was “the first heavy international rescue team to have reached Nepal after the massive disaster,” said the statement.

Nepal's PM faces anger from survivors

Protests greeted Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala on Wednesday in relief camps as anger spilled over to the streets with people seizing food and water supplies, four days after a devastating quake claimed over 6,000 lives.

People vented their anger when the Prime Minister visited their camps to assess relief work and complained that they were not getting any aid.

Nepal PM Sushil Koirala (centre, right) visits relief camps. Koirala told survivors that he had come to see for himself the difficult situation and assured them that help would reach them at the earliest

Protesters vented their anger when the Prime Minister visited their camps to assess relief work and complained that they were not getting any aid

Koirala told them that he had come to see for himself the difficult situation and assured them that help would reach them at the earliest.

Thousands of desperate Nepalese, who have been staying in the open with no houses to return to and fearing more devastation from aftershocks, clashed with police and seized water-bottles and other essential supplies.

Frayed tempers were also witnessed at the main bus station where quake victims gathered to get out of Kathmandu but the promised buses failed to arrive.

Scuffles broke out between angry crowds and the riot police which arrived there to control the situation.

“Over 6,000 bodies have so far been pulled out from under mounds of debris and rubble left by razed homes and buildings in Saturday's 7.9-magnitude temblor,” Deputy Prime Minister Bam Dev Gautam said.

On Tuesday, Koirala had said the toll could reach 10,000 because information from the affected remote villages is yet to come.
</text>