<url>
http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/national/nepal-earthquake-as-victims-mourn-channel-7-promotes-story-about-hugh-sheridans-search-for-his-brother/story-fnii5s40-1227327356872?nk=10d4755b152493422c6eb898ed02009e
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: As victims mourn, Channel 7 promotes story about Hugh Sheridan’s search for his brother
</headline>

<text>
AS thousands of Nepalese live in tents on streets and mourn up to 10,000 of their dead, Channel 7 is plugging a story promoting an actor’s search for his brother — who is safe in an isolated village.

Former Packed To The Rafters­ star Hugh Sheridan and celebrity doctor Andrew Rochford are staying at the Shangri-La hotel with an entourage of Sunday Night crew.

The Daily Telegraph can reveal the network has been trying to source a helicopter to travel to a remote area near Mt Everest to facilitate a reunion with his 20-year-old brother Zach, who arrived safely in a small village this week after days out of contact.

THE LATEST NEWS ON THE NEPAL EARTHQUAKE

HUGH SHERIDAN’S BROTHER FOUND SAFE AND WELL

EARTHQUAKE: INSIDE KATHMANDU’S DURBAR SQUARE\

media_camera Hugh Sheridan on Instagram media_camera Hugh Sheridan on Instagram

A Sunday Night production crew has approached local authorities to help source a helicopter but there were none available as they are all being used to run ­important aid missions­ and to rescue the sick.

“It was apparent that others had more pressing needs, this is why the brothers have not yet been physically reunited,” a Channel 7 spokeswoman said.

When Sheridan arrived at the international airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday, handlers told The Daily Telegraph he wouldn’t be able to speak with other media. Not long after they shot a promo called Moving Mountains, plugging it would follow My Kitchen Rules.

media_camera Victims of the earthquake sleep under their makeshift tents at Tunshikel Park in Kathmandu / Picture: Getty Images

While Sheridan was flying to Nepal — ravaged by a devastating magnitude 7.8 earthquake and aftershocks — it emerged his brother Zach had reported he was safe.

The Australian Embassy in Nepal and DFAT continue to monitor the safety and whereabouts of more than 80 Australians still unaccounted for. Many Australians have been able to leave Nepal on commercial flights, while DFAT is warning people to stay away from to avoid ­putting a further drain on local resources.

A total of 240 Australians had registered with the Embassy as of yesterday morning, with 78 people camping on the grounds. More are ­expected in coming days.

media_camera Zachary and Hugh Sheridan / Picture: Facebook media_camera A woman recovers cooking pots from her collapsed home in Paslnag village / Picture: AP

The International Airport, which has nine landing spots, is running around the clock.

Two Australian C-17 planes were scheduled to leave from Amberley air base to Bangkok yesterday and are expected to attempt to travel to Nepal today. Aussies are expected to be evacuated on the C-17, which carries 75 passengers, back to Bangkok today, with priority given to the sick and elderly. The C-17 will bring in medical supplies and tents.

A Channel 7 spokeswoman released confirmed the network was working with Sheridan as part of a story.

They say they will endeavour to “provide medical and communications assistance to others in Nepal affected by the earthquake”.

media_camera Nepalese men carry a body of an earthquake victim towards a helicopter / Picture: AFP

media_camera A child injured in a devastating earthquake receives treatment at a hospital in Kathmandu / Picture: AFP media_camera Hugh Sheriden posted this response on Instagram last night.

At the back of Sheridan’s hotel is a makeshift campsite where some guests have been staying since the quake.

“Seven’s Sunday Night has travelled with Hugh Sheridan from Los Angeles to Nepal following­ the devastating earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday. Hugh and his brother Tom were together with Sunday Night when they learned the news they’d been hoping for, that younger brother Zach was safe. Until late yesterday he’d been unable to get a message out of the remote area he had been travelling in,” the Sunday Night statement said.

media_camera Channel 7’s promotion for Moving Mountains has been viewed by many as a callous ratings grab. Picture: Supplied.

media_camera Actor Hugh Sheridan at Kathmandu International Airport / Picture: Nathan Edwards

The statement claimed Dr Rochford and Sunday Night would “assist Hugh and Tom to reach their brother”.

The Daily Telegraph spoke to Dr Rochford after he returned to his hotel yesterday and he said he was unable to comment on what he had been doing.

Sheridan earlier this week said he would travel to Nepal to find his brother: “I will be with a small crew helping with a chopper, a doctor and we will have a satellite phone available for any Australian there who needs to reach home and tell their loved ones they’re OK.

media_camera Volunteers and quake emergency team members clear debris Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu / Picture: Getty Images

“Many of us are still waiting to hear but communication­ is down. I’m looking forward to seeing my little brother and getting him out safely.”

Last night Sheridan posted an Instagram photo of himself in a dirt stained T-shirt, gloves and a mask in front of a collapsed­ building and said he was “trying to be useful to the local people”.

Sheridan is an ­ambassador for World Vision Australia. Dr Rochford is an ­ambassador for the Australian Red Cross.

media_camera Residents look for their belongings among the rubble of their destroyed homes in Sankhu on the outskirts of Kathmandu / Picture: AFP

Originally published as This is me, looking rugged in the rubble
</text>