<url>
http://thechronicleherald.ca/metro/1283482-halifax-man-relieved-to-hear-son-is-safe-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Halifax man relieved to hear son is safe in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
It’s been six days since an earthquake ripped through Kathmandu and people are still trying to contact family members in the area and provide relief.

Alain Carriere’s 18-year old son Simon has been in Nepal since December and since Saturday the young man has thrown himself into volunteering and reaching out to help people in need.

On Saturday, Carriere, of Halifax, got a call at 5 a.m. from Simon saying Nepal had just been hit with a 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Simon told his father he was OK, although it was “pretty scary.”

He said the ground shook for two minutes while he and friends were eating, adding, the shaking was so bad they couldn't walk.

On Sunday night there was an aftershock. “They’ve been worried. Scared. On their tippy-toes” waiting for what’s next, said Carriere.

“You could sleep but you don’t know when you’re going to wake up. So (Simon’s) been on edge, more or less, for 36, 48 hours. Since Saturday.”

His son saw the devastation around him and decided to do something. Simon put together a team of nine volunteers, including two medical students and local people. They rented three jeeps and stocked them full of food, medical supplies and tents.

They left Tuesday from Pokhara, which is about a four-hour drive from Kathmandu.

The team approached the Nepalese government and asked for permission to help. They were directed to a remote village.

When the volunteers got there, they were the first responders. They immediately set up tents and began to give first aid. They also drove 10 people to a hospital in Pokhara, saving the life of a little girl.

So far they’ve been able to raise $9,000 online to buy supplies.

Simon told his father that as they were driving they could see all the houses on the right had collapsed and on the left all the houses were standing.

The young man estimated around 80 per cent of the houses had been destroyed.

There have been more aftershocks.

Simon told Carriere the group has seen houses crumble and mudslides. Aftershocks and rain help to create more danger in a region already fraught with danger.

Simon is flying home to Canada on May 16. He has been on a lengthy tour of Asia. The ticket was purchased two weeks ago.

The father says Simon had a narrow miss with catastrophe because he was supposed to be in Kathmandu on Saturday.

“He had a good guardian angel protecting him,” Carriere said.

Simon had planned to be in the city on Friday and Saturday, but at the last minute he decided to postpone the trip until Monday.

“Normally where he stays is in the old Kathmandu, so all the devastation, that’s where he would have been,” Carriere said.

Meanwhile, Sherab Dolma Sherpa has been trying to get word about her mother’s safety in Nepal for the last six days.

Sherpa is originally from the village of Nathu-kharka in the district of Sindhupalchowk. She came to Canada in 2011 to attend Saint Mary’s University. In January, she graduated with a degree in geography and returned to Nepal for two months to visit her family before returning to Nova Scotia.

“Now I hear there’s a big earthquake in Nepal and I was at work when I heard about the earthquake. I work at the hospital at the night shift. So it was three in the morning when I heard the news,” she said.

Her younger siblings are in Kathmandu but their mother lives in a village up in the mountains and no one’s been able to contact her.

Sherpa has a sister living near the border with Tibet and she’s been keeping Sherpa updated but her sister hasn’t been able to make it in to Nepal and her phone is no longer working.

Sherpa has been able to contact other people in the area and she’s skeptical as to whether or not the Nepalese government is doing enough.

“Apparently people are complaining, citizens are saying that all the foreign aid and supplies and rescue teams, they’re all focused in Kathmandu and near cities. But not outer valleys, remote areas.”

Since Saturday, Sherpa and a friend have been raising funds to help their village. They want to send money for medical supplies, food, drinking water and a helicopter to search for people.

“This money, we’re not sending it through any government agency because our government is really corrupt. You never know if the money will go to the right place. I’m not even contacting any government agency because I don’t trust them at all.”
</text>