<url>
https://www.idfblog.com/blog/2015/04/27/israelinnepal/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Update on IDF Activities in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
This morning, April 27, an 80-member Israeli humanitarian aid delegation set flight for Nepal, after a magnitude-7.8 quake struck the capital city Kathmandu on Saturday. They will be joined shortly in Nepal by another cargo flight with around 170 trained military personnel.

“We’re on a mission to achieve three things. Deploy major search and rescue operations. Admit patients to our field hospitals within 12 hours of landing. Help the Nepalese people.” -Colonel Yoram Larado, head of the IDF humanitarian delegation to Nepal

The first team is scheduled to arrive in Nepal late Monday night. It will immediately join other countries that have set up disaster relief efforts in the aftermath of the worst earthquake to hit Nepal in the past 80 years:

The earthquake’s death toll has already reached more than 6,000 people.

Local hospitals are unequipped to treat more than 13,000 injured people.

Hundreds of thousands of people in Kathmandu have been displaced as a result.

The IDF in Nepal

In the next two weeks, our search and rescue teams will be deployed near Kathmandu. The goal is to locate survivors in the rubble of collapsed buildings. A field hospital will also be set up to provide medical services to the local population.

***This post will be updated as events unfold.***

May 10th

Our humanitarian mission to Nepal has culminated. We treated 1,600 patients, operated 85 surgeries, and delivered 8 babies. The mission consisted of 260 search and rescue and medical personnel and 95 tons of humanitarian and medical supplies.

Day 13 (May 8th)

The IDF field hospital has treated 178 patients today and 1427 patients total. There have been 90 life-saving surgeries, and 8 babies have been delivered.

IDF engineers have evaluated the stability of 295 structures damaged in the earthquake.

IDF mental health officers have held a seminar for local educations staff, intended to help the local population in its transition after the natural disaster.

Day 12 (May 7th)

The IDF field hospital has treated 1,024 patients. There have been 75 surgeries, and 8 babies have been delivered.

Day 11 (May 6th)

The IDF field hospital has treated its 1000th patient.There have been 70 surgeries, and 7 babies have been delivered.

Day 10 (May 5th)

The IDF field hospital has treated 885 patients thus far.There have been 70 surgeries, and 7 babies have been delivered.

The Home Front Command is continuing in its efforts to assist Nepalese civilians, and today the team organized an activity for children and teachers.

Additionally, the Commander of the Home Front Command, Maj. Gen. Yoel Strik and Surgeon General of the IDF Medical Corps, Brig. Gen. Dudu Dagan met with the Commander Chief of the Nepalese military.

Day 9 (May 4th)

The IDF field hospital has treated 718 patients thus far. There have been 43 life-saving surgeries, and 7 babies have been delivered.

Additionally, Commander of the Home Front Command, Maj. Gen. Yoel Strik and Surgeon General of the IDF Medical Corps, Brigadier General Doctor Dudu Dagan arrived in Nepal and will be meeting with the Nepalese Prime Minister.

Day 8 (May 3rd)

The IDF field hospital has treated 578 patients thus far. There have been 43 life-saving surgeries, and 6 babies have been delivered.

Additionally, the Home Front Command began performing damage control on public buildings in Nepal.

Day 7 (May 2nd)

Total number of patients treated at the IDF field hospital is now 438 (twice the amount treated as of yesterday). There have also been 33 life-saving surgeries, and 3 baby deliveries.

This evening 45 soldiers from IDF Home Front Command, along with another 21 Israelis will be flying back to Israel from Nepal.

Day 6 (May 1st)

A baby girl was delivered at the field hospital today, with the mom and the baby both in good health.

This morning, two helicopters from the search and rescue teams of the Nepalese army and the Home Front Command Search went to search for the missing Israeli Or Asraf.

Total number of patients treated at the IDF field hospital is now 284: 21 life-saving surgeries, and two baby deliveries.

The Home Front Command returned from a special mission today, returning 21 Israelis to the camp. Fifteen were from Trisuli and 6 from Mt. Everest.

Day 5 (April 30)

During the second day of operation of the IDF field hospital, 119 patients were treated, as well as 98 patients treated yesterday, making a total of 217 patients thus far. The field hospital has treated severe injuries completing multiple complex surgeries.

Treatments thus far: 217, 15 life-saving surgeries and 1 Cesarean section.

A significant decision was made today, increasing the beds in the emergency room by 50%.

A 15 year old boy was evacuated by USAID and was brought to the IDF field hospital. The boy survived 5 days under the rubble, and was severely dehydrated with a few scratches.

15 yr old boy evacuated by @USAID & brought to IDF field hospital after 120 hrs under rubble. Currently in recovery pic.twitter.com/X8op9Sopjm — IDF Rescue (@IDFrescue) April 30, 2015

Day 4 (April 29)

We completed the construction of the field hospital and began seeing our first patients. We treated 98 people by the end of the day!

We welcomed a baby boy to the world, in the late afternoon.

Day 3 (April 28)

The humanitarian mission has begun constructing the field hospital.

Search & rescue operations are currently underway.

Day 2 (April 27)

The first IDF humanitarian mission aircraft arrived in Nepal.

Day 1 (April 26)

Israel Air Force brought home 11 Israelis, including three infants.
</text>