<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11562782/Nepal-earthquake-live.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Woman miraculously rescued from rubble alive after more than five days
</headline>

<text>
Thank you for reading our coverage of the aftermath of the earthquake.

For more about the survivors, read Tom Phillips' piece from Kathmandu about those rescued alive including the four-month-old baby.

You can also read about the story of one son whose father died in the earthquake and a family coming to terms with their loss .

17.25

US special forces troops who were in Nepal for high-altitude training have joined rescue efforts, Ben Farmer writes.

More than 30 stranded trekkers were picked up by US Army Green Berets in a helicopter, the Daily Beast reported.

17.23

More from AFP on the rescue of the woman named as Krishna Devi Khadka.. The agency said that she is a a kitchen worker in her 30s, and was rescued "streets away" from where the 15-year-old was rescued.

The agency added that the rescue team - which included Nepalese soldiers and experts from France, Norway and Israel - worked all through the night.

"She was injured but she was conscious and talking," a Nepal army major told AFP.

"She has been sent to a military hospital. It is as though she had been born again."

Krishna Devi Khadka is carried on a stretcher after being rescued from a building in Kathmandu (Bikram Rai/AP)

17.19

A woman has been rescued from rubble five days after the earthquake, AP reports.

17.01

The Foreign Office said that a British dual national killed in the disaster was Hemchandra Rai, 42, a married father of three who lived in Hong Kong.

15.42

Nepalese photojournalist Amul Thapa, the photographer who took the shots of the four month-old baby, has described his joy at seeing the baby alive.

"When I saw the baby alive all my sorrow went. Everyone was clapping. It gave me energy and made me smile in spite of lots of pain hidden inside me."

14.23

The death toll from a devastating earthquake in Nepal has risen to 5,844.

Another 11,175 people have been injured, according to the home ministry.

12.20

France has announced the death of a third French citizen in the quake, Associated Press writes.

The first government flight carrying French nationals from Nepal arrived in Paris overnight.

According to EU officials, some 9,000 EU citizens are still in Nepal following Saturday's earthquake. More than 1,000 of them have not been reached yet.

11.27

AFP has created this handly list of the important numbers to know about the earthquake:

5,489 people are known to have died in Nepal alone Upwards of another 10,000 were injured 18 climbers died at Mount Everest base camp when the quake sparked an avalanche Two Americans, an Australian, a Japanese and a Chinese national were among the victims on the mountain 75 people were killed in India In China, 25 lost their lives, according to the ministry of civil affairs in Tibet A British dual national, who lived in Hong Kong, also died The United Nations estimates that eight million people have been affected 2.8 million Nepalese were displaced, according to the world body More than 3.5 million people are estimated to be in need of food assistance, the UN said And Unicef estimates that 1.7 million children require urgent aid Dozens of countries from around the world have rushed to pledge money. Significant sums include: $15 million (£9.73 million) from the UN's emergency fund $15 million total contributed by Britain $10 million pledged by the United States $8.4 million from Japan, according to local media $4.7 million from Australia The UN has also made an appeal for $415 million while Unicef wants to raise $50.35 million The UN said 80 tons of of emergency items including tents, blankets and health kits were being distributed The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) says 1,719 personnel across 54 international teams from 22 countries are supporting the relief effort 13 of those teams, with 585 staff, are from India OCHA estimates 530,000 houses were damaged across 39 of Nepal's 75 districts Another 70,000 were destroyed, according to the UN agency OCHA said that up to 90 per cent of health facilities in four districts were severely damaged And some 16,000 schools were damaged, the agency added Business research IHS estimates that reconstruction costs could top $5 billion or around 20 per cent of the country's GDP

10.28

The United Nations has warned that Kathmandu’s airport is “swamped” with aid containers full of food, medicines and tents, and appealed to the Nepal government to quickly distribute it to those most in need, writes Dean Nelson in New Delhi.

Urgent relief consignments have been arriving steadily into the capital since last Saturday’s earthquake, but officials and airport are not moving them out fast enough. The UN fears the growing logjam will hamper the wider aid effort as more and more arrives.

“We’ve been saying this stuff needs moving out… we need to make sure they don’t clog the airport and [get the aid] straight out to the affected areas”, said Jamie McGoldrick, the UN coordinator for Nepal.

Trapped hikers get on a helicopter of Nepal Army from affected areas of earthquake in Rasuwa (Barcroft Media)

10.01

The Telegraph was the first news agency to be flown by relief helicopter over Barpak villages, landing in Pokhasi Gauh, writes Richard Spencer in Gorkha District.

The remote hill town of Barpak was among the worst hit in Saturday's quake in central Nepal

Barpak saw around 100 deaths in the earthquake, according to local officials, and Laprak about 50, among the highest concentrations anywhere in the rural areas worst hit. Other casualties were scattered through the area.

Throughout Barpak, the central stretches of housing had been laid to waste, rubble strewn over the roads.

Nepali and Indian army helicopters and one private chopper made up the relief effort, dropping food and other supplies in some cases for the first time since the quake on Saturday and taking off with the most seriously injured. The dead were left behind.

“I have been flying for four days and have rescued more than 3-400 people from different parts of Nepal like Gorkha, the pilot, Subek Shrestha, said. “Most people are out of food, shelter. We are co-ordinating goods, rescue materials.”

Read Richard Spencer's full piece here and watch the video below.

Nepalese policemen lift their commander and celebrate after they along with US rescuers pulled out Pemba Tamang (Getty Images)

09.53

09.04

The death toll in Nepal has risen to 5,489, according to a new tally by disaster management officials while more than 100 others were killed in neighbouring India and China, AFP reports.

Here is another photo depicting the moment after a baby was safely rescued in Bhaktapur from the rubble of a collapsed building.

09.02

The son of one of the first climbers known to reach the summit of Mount Everest has described how his father's village was "almost flattened" by the Nepalese earthquake, Press Association writes.

Jamling Tenzing Norgay's father Sherpa Tenzing Norgay famously got to the top with Sir Edmund Hillary in 1953.

His son, also a mountaineer, was on his way to base camp with a group of 10 Indian women when they felt the tremors.

They decided to keep climbing rather than risk being hit by boulders at the foot of the hill.

By complete coincidence, as they took refuge, they ran into Sir Edmund's son Peter, who was also on an expedition.

Mr Norgay told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We are very close and dear friends.

"It was by coincidence that we met there. It's always great to see him in the mountains.

"Just to hear his part of the story about the avalanche ... I had no idea of how tremendous that was.

"He basically described it as an avalanche of snow, ice and rock that hit base camp and flattened everything that was in its path."

After being asked what is needed now, Mr Norgay said: "Nepal has suffered greatly with the recent earthquake.

"There's thousands of people homeless, sleeping outside.

"The village ... where my father grew up is almost flattened, almost all the houses have been flattened.

"A lot of villages - it's about 95 per cent have damages.

"So I think we need to figure out a way to slowly rebuild the houses for all these people.

"Most of the tea houses along the way in the Everest region ... most of the other trekking routes ... have been damaged.

"It is going to take a while for people to come back in the Himalayas."

Read more here.

08.46

More about the baby mentioned earlier. He has no injuries but the attempt to save the child's life had been a long one and members of the armed forces had arrived at the family's collapsed house in Bhaktapur on Saturday. They had been trying to conduct a successful rescue until midnight, Kathmandu Today reported.

He was eventually rescued at 10am on Sunday after a rescue team returned as the father said he could his child crying.

08.32

Further good news coming out from Nepali media. Kunda Dixit, editor of Nepali Times, said on Twitter an 11-year-old girl was rescued Bhaktapur Dattatreya Square after 90 hours under rubble.

Girl, 11, rescued from Bhaktapur Dattatreya Sq after 90 hrs under rubble by Nepal Army. #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/AAb9EmLnv7 — Kunda Dixit (@kundadixit) April 30, 2015

The rescue of the teenager came after Kathmandu Today, a local newspaper, shared images of a baby boy rescued from the rubble 22 hours after being buried under a building which had collapsed.

The images appear to show a Nepalese rescue team rescuing the baby, named locally as Sonit Awal, who is covered in dust. It was reported in the Guardian that he was four months old.

(Kathmandu Today)

07.58

There has been some good news coming out of Nepal just now from Associated Press. A 15-year-old boy has been successfully pulled out of rubble in Kathmandu, five days after the earthquake.

The news agency said there were waiting crowds which celebrated the rescue as the teenager was taken by a stretcher and was given medical attention.

A blue brace was placed around his neck, AP reported, with his face covered in dust. Unsurprisingly, he appeared stunned as he saw sunlight after far too long.

It was not an easy rescue and a US team spent hours trying to save him after he was trapped between two collapsed floors.

07.54

Good morning and welcome to the Telegraph's live coverage of the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake. To recap what has happened so far, the tragedy began on Saturday when a 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit Nepal but also affected other areas and countries including India and Tibet.

More than 5,500 people have been killed including one British national with dual citizenship. At least 18 people died on Mount Everest - five foreigners and 14 Sherpas according to Associated Press - and there have been nearly 100 aftershocks, including a magnitude-6.7 temblor on Sunday.

A few minutes earlier on BBC Radio 4, John Rankin, British ambassador to Nepal, said that bad weather hampered relief efforts outside Kathmandu.

This has been a major disaster and conditions remain difficult. The bad weather can hamper relief efforts although in Kathmandu city the weather isn't as bad.

The remote areas of Nepal in normal areas are difficult to reach, but the bad weather and disaster make it more difficult.

There is still more to do to help those [in need]. We understand how difficult it is for those in the UK waiting for news of loved ones.

He confirmed that one Briton had died in the tragedy and said Gurkhas had arrived this morning hoping to stop the situation getting worse.

The key issue now is the longer term one of getting medical supplies, shelter, water, sanitation to people in Kathmandu and beyond.

We've got British teams involved in that effort - we got an RAF flight in this morning with Gurkhas. We are trying with the Nepalese government to stop the situation worsening.
</text>