<url>
http://www.mysuburbanlife.com/2015/04/30/crystal-lake-central-grad-describes-chaos-after-nepal-earthquake/avpevpz/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Crystal Lake Central grad describes 'chaos' after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Photo provided by Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg Immediately after the earthquake struck Nepal on April 25, 2015, Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg, a 2006 Crystal Lake Central High School graduate, snapped a picture with her Nepali friend, a retired publisher who lives near Pashupatinath temple, in Nepal. Photo provided by Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg A mother, daughter and granddaughter sit on a bench after the earthquake struck Nepal on April 25, 2015. They were on the third story of a nearby building during the earthquake. The grandmother lives in Nepal but the other two were visiting from Switzerland. Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg, a 2006 Crystal Lake Central High School graduate, encountered them while in Nepal. Photo provided by Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg, a 2006 Crystal Lake Central High School graduate, was walking near this wall at a monastery in Nepal when an earthquake struck on April 25, 2015. This wall collapsed during the tremor. Photo provided by Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg Damage can be seen from the earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25, 2015, at the reception desk on the first floor of the guest house where Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg, a 2006 Crystal Lake Central High School graduate, was staying at the time.

CRYSTAL LAKE – It started with the birds.

Pigeons, hundreds of them, flew past former Crystal Lake resident Dr. Patty Klingenbjerg in a Kathmandu square with the first strike of a deadly earthquake that rattled Nepal on Saturday. The same spiral of birds repeated with the rumble from every aftershock.

“The birds would rise, the dogs would start barking and the people would drop to the ground,” Klingenbjerg said.

Klingenbjerg, 27, was in Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu as part of a group of doctors taking a global health course the day a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck. She arrived in Nepal on March 28 and was set to leave at 11 p.m. April 25, but that plan was delayed by the earthquake that killed more than 5,800 people and demolished countless buildings.

The 2006 Crystal Lake Central graduate said she was walking through the Boudhanath Stupa, an open air area surrounded by shops and restaurants. As she talked to a Nepali man who commented on the “help the world” slogan on her shirt, the ground started to shake.

The man grabbed her by the arm and they stumbled to a nearby bench, where they huddled until the rumbling subsided.

“We dropped to the ground together and held hands and waited for it to pass,” Klingenbjerg said. “We braced against a bench and kept nodding and keeping eye contact saying 'we're going to be OK.'”

Facts about how ill-prepared the country was ran through Klingenbjerg's mind. Two days before, she and the group of 15 colleagues met with officials from the National Society of Earthquake Technology to discuss how devastating it would be if an earthquake struck Nepal.

The experts knew the county was about a decade overdue for a high-magnitude earthquake, but said they hoped for more time to retrofit buildings that were not strong enough to withstand one, she recalled.

“All of our initial thoughts were 'oh no, this can't be real.' We had just talked about how bad this could be,” Klingenbjerg said. “So when it hit, it was surreal.”

She stayed in the square for two hours, watching as people flooded out of the surrounding buildings into the square. A daughter, mother and granddaughter shared food and water with Klingenbjerg before she ventured through crumbling facades to the guest house she had been staying at about 15 minutes away. She and some of her group sent messages to family members and eventually made the trek to the Hyatt Hotel closer to the Tribhuvan International Airport.

There, she was reunited with most of her group, including two 19-month old twins who were children of their group leaders.

The group stayed outside for two days, waking up to dozens of aftershocks. More than 70 aftershocks stronger than magnitude 3.2 have been recorded in the Himalayan region by Indian scientists in the five days since the quake, according to J.L. Gautam, the director of seismology at the Indian Meteorological Department in New Delhi.

Mostly physically unscathed, Klingenbjerg's group offered help to local hospitals and agencies but were told that unless they had their own food and water, they should return to the United States.

All but one of her group has returned safely, she said, with the last group member waiting to return. Before Klingenbjerg landing Tuesday morning in Chicago, she journeyed 52 hours. Although exhausting, her journey is small compared to the coming months in Nepal, she said.

“I think my focus is more on the generosity of the people of Nepal and that they are going to need sustained aid,” Klingenbjerg said. “This is not going to disappear when it stops making headlines.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.
</text>