<url>
http://www.philstar.com/headlines/2015/05/01/1449921/mmda-sends-retrieval-team-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
MMDA sends retrieval team to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
MANILA, Philippines - An eight-member team of rescuers from the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) will be sent to Kathmandu in Nepal today to assist in the retrieval of bodies trapped under rubble following a strong earthquake.

MMDA Chairman Francis Tolentino said the team is comprised of well-trained rescuers deployed to help in the rescue and retrieval operations in Bohol and La Libertad, Negros Oriental after an earthquake in 2013.

“This contingent will likewise conduct post-earthquake studies to aid Metro Manila in case an earthquake of similar magnitude occurs,” he said.

Tolentino said the MMDA team could help fine-tune Oplan Metro Yakal, which lays down operational procedures in the event of a 7.2 magnitude earthquake in Metro Manila, following their exposure to the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake.

“We are optimistic that our personnel can provide the needed expertise and assistance that Nepal badly needs,” he said. “They are helping in behalf of the entire government of the Republic of the Philippines.”

Tolentino said the MMDA effort aims to repay the international community’s help to the Philippines following the devastating Super Typhoon Yolanda in 2013.

Headlines ( Article MRec ), pagematch: 1, sectionmatch: 1

“This is our way of showing our gratitude to the global community for helping us Filipinos in the aftermath of Super Typhoon Yolanda, particularly in Leyte and Eastern Samar. We need to show solidarity with the international community,” he said. “After all, we are a one-world family. We need to act in unison during times of disasters.”

The MMDA team would be staying in Kathmandu for several days, Tolentino said.

Doctors, nurses to Nepal

A team of volunteer doctors and nurses from the Philippine Red Cross (PRC) flew to Nepal yesterday to provide health care to earthquake victims.

PRC chairman Richard Gordon said the medical team will focus on providing maternal and child healthcare as well as surgical operations.

“The Philippine medical team is highly trained and have been previously deployed in other emergency field hospital operations such as in the aftermath of the Typhoon Yolanda,” he said.

Gordon said earthquake-affected areas in Nepal face growing health needs.

“Currently, hospitals in Nepal are overwhelmed by the volume of patients,” he said. “They need medical supplies and equipment, and that’s why we are sending our team there.”

The medical team from the Philippines will not be bringing equipment since the Canadian Red Cross has already shipped them, Gordon said.

Members of the Philippine medical team include Ranvier Martinez from the Department of Emergency Medicine and Cleofe Medina from the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, both from the Makati Medical Center.

Joining them are volunteer nurses from PRC chapters: Florianne Adlawan from Cebu; Jasper Caleb Aguilo from Southern Leyte and Dan Espenzer Velasco from Pangasinan.

Yesterday, an emergency response unit (ERU) search and rescue team, composed of 13 trained emergency response personnel, left for Nepal from the PRC national headquarters in Manila.

The ERU team will assist the Nepal Red Cross Society in the search and rescue and retrieval of victims trapped in collapsed structures.

PRC secretary-general Gwendolyn Pang has appealed for support from Filipinos for the Nepal Red Cross.

“As we too have received overwhelming blessings of compassion and goodwill during our times of crisis, especially during Typhoon Yolanda, may we take this opportunity to give back the support we have received,” she said. – With Mayen Jaymalin, Rainier Allan Ronda
</text>