<url>
http://www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/lake-county-news-sun/lifestyles/ct-lns-nepal-green-oaks-gaulin-st-0501-20150430-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Green Oaks 23-year-old returned 'a different girl' after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Safely back in Green Oaks after experiencing the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that shook Nepal last weekend, Alexandra Gaulin said she cannot forget the people she met, the country's beauty and the devastation she narrowly escaped.

It is possible, the 23-year-old said, some of the smiling children she photographed while on a two-week photo expedition in India and Nepal lost their lives, homes and loved ones.

That's why the 2009 Libertyville High School graduate has set up a fundraising account at http://www.gofundme.com/teg8t74 to help the people of Nepal, including a man she met named Umesh. He has Facebook messaged her that his home was destroyed and his brother was in the hospital.

Gaulin took the last flight out of Kathmandu on Sunday, several hours after the earthquake hit. They spent nearly three hours on the tarmac, experiencing aftershocks and not knowing if they'd be able to return home.

Recent news accounts state the number of dead is at about 5,000, with reports that as many as 10,000 or more could die as a result of the earthquake. Many more are injured and without homes.

The GoFundMe page, being managed by Gaulin and other photo expedition participants, will raise money to purchase supplies they'll send to Nepal via the guides they met there. Through continued messaging with her new friends in Nepal, Gaulin has learned people need over-the counter-medicines, clothing, baby milk powder, blankets, tents and sanitizing wipes, among other basic items.

A recent Facebook message from Abhaya Khanal, one of the guides she met, read: "We need funds for gas, oil, rice." Khanal added that he received one sack of rice which "is not enough."

Denise Gaulin, Alexandra's mother, said since her daughter returned from Nepal, "she is like a different girl to me. She's grown up. I believe it has changed her whole perspective on life and her purpose."

As she starts a new part-time job Monday working for Lake County Animal Control, Alexandra Gaulin said her mother is right.

"I almost feel I'm trapped in a shock. I feel kind of guilty. I keep thinking, 'What if we were still hiking in the mountains when the earthquake hit?' I feel like I was spared, which is why I feel such a need to give back," Gaulin said. "I'm aware of what a poor country Nepal is and what wonderful people live there and that they don't have the resources we have. That's why it's so important for me to get the word out."

Days before the earthquake and aftershocks, Gaulin had been hiking and taking photographs in the Himalayas. It was the first time she had been out of the U.S.

The trek was arduous, she said.

"But the scenery was just gorgeous. We photographed a lot of people living in the little villages," she said. "They live very simple lives. It's such a poor country and yet I feel that they're very rich in life and love. You can tell that their families were very close and caring so much. You see some of the smaller children caring for the tiny babies. You see mothers washing their babies outside in pots and pans. You could tell there's a close sense of community."

On the morning of April 26, however, the landscape changed forever.

Gaulin, her friend and photo expedition leader Dean Tatooles of Chicago and participant Chris Mundy of Chicago were sitting on the aircraft at the Kathmandu airport to return home about 11:30 a.m. when the plane started shaking back and forth.

"The shaking kept getting more intense and violent," Gaulin said. "I looked out the window and the plane next to us was bouncing up and down off the ground. There were still people boarding outside and they were falling over and they were probably more terrified than we were. I'd say it lasted a minute or so."

All of the passengers were evacuated from the plane.

"While we were on the tarmac, a lot of us were on our phones. At that point, we knew it was serious," she said.

Gaulin was able to get through to her parents via text to tell them she was OK.

"I was up all night," Denise Gaulin said.

At about 3 or 4 a.m., her daughter texted again: "Mom we are having an earthquake. I am fine."

By 9 a.m., Denise learned her daughter had landed in New Delhi, India, and was on her way home via London.

"It wasn't until we arrived to India that we started seeing more news reports about the earthquake, and hearing that the death toll kept rising," Alexandra Gaulin said.

As she watched from India, Gaulin saw monuments she had photographed that were destroyed.

"We realized we probably got some of the last photographs of some historic sacred places," she said. "It's very sad."

Gaulin hopes to publish a book of the photographs she took of the people, scenery and buildings in Nepal, and she pledged the proceeds would help the residents rebuild.

"People (in other countries) will forget about it in six months," she said. "But that's when they'll need to rebuild, and I want to go back and help them."

Gaulin said she went to the mall with her mother a few days after returning and experienced a new and uncomfortable feeling.

"We were just watching people spend unnecessary amounts of money for things they probably don't need," she said. "It was so hard for me to see people enjoying themselves when I know there are people dying and needing help.

"I realize now that when other disasters happen, I'll be more aware. I'll try to help more."

Sheryl DeVore is a News-Sun freelancer.
</text>