<url>
http://www.gjsentinel.com/news/articles/glenwood-grad-kneedeep-in-nepal-tragedy
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Glenwood grad knee-deep in Nepal tragedy
</headline>

<text>
SHARE

Glenwood grad knee-deep in Nepal tragedy









As a first-year medical student in the Kathmandu area, 2007 Glenwood Springs High School graduate Sweta Lohani will be the first to admit she was far from fully prepared to help respond to those injured by the recent earthquake in Nepal.

But when maimed victims started showing up at the hospital where she is studying there, she and fellow students went into motion to help out.

“All of us started putting our gloves on and we did what we could,” she said.

Working in the open air outside a facility too dangerous to enter, with only two doctors to oversee them and not enough medical equipment, some volunteers held up saline bottles for intravenous drips, and others cleaned dirt from wounds. Lohani went to work injecting pain medication and performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

“As I was giving CPR I could just feel people’s pulses fading away,” she said by telephone Tuesday.

Five people she tried to save didn’t make it.

“I just felt helpless,” Lohani said.

But her experience doing what she could has only strengthened her resolve to become a doctor.

“I wouldn’t quit it for anything,” she said.

For the short term, though, she is considering options that include returning to Glenwood Springs due to the uncertainties surrounding when her school will be back up and running and when the almost-unlivable conditions in Nepal will improve.

She has heard the reports about aid being sent to Nepal.

“I don’t know where the aid is going. They’re saying they’re sending a lot of help. I don’t see it. I just see people running in despair. I don’t see any help being provided.

“… I just haven’t seen people getting that attention. Everything is still in ruins. People are still trying to dig people out.”

Meanwhile, Lohani’s family in Colorado is left to worry about her and their other relatives in Kathmandu, and about the country as a whole.

“It’s tough and we feel helpless out here,” said Ozus Lohani, Sweta’s brother, and a 2005 Glenwood Springs High School graduate now in graduate school in Denver.

“If I had the choice I’d go back and help.”

Their parents, Om and Sarita Lohani, own Nepal Restaurant south of Glenwood Springs. Om has been speaking to his daughter about her possible return to the United States, while also worrying about his brother trying to take care of his elderly parents in Kathmandu.

“It’s very, very hard for me because I can imagine what’s going on there,” said Om, who was in Kathmandu during a big earthquake about 25 years ago.

ROOTS IN NEPAL, COLORADO

Om and Sarita Lohani were born in Kathmandu. She moved to the Glenwood Springs area in 2000, and Om arrived with their children in 2003, to help with the restaurant that they’ve owned since Sarita’s arrival.

Sweta, 25, headed back to Nepal to attend Kathmandu Medical College after getting a degree from Colorado State University and working at Valley View Hospital in Glenwood Springs.

She was on the phone with her dad in a building on campus when Saturday’s earthquake struck.

“She told me, ‘There’s a big earthquake, Dad,’ ” Om recalled. “She saw the house in front of her collapse.”

Sweta said when the quake hit, everyone ran out of the building but she stayed, thinking it would be over quickly. It didn’t stop, though, and a friend came and pulled her from the building.

“We were just all over the place, swaying back and forth.

“We were in the main road and I was looking to my left and there was a house falling apart, looking right and a house was falling down.”

She started walking back to her dorm. Her school’s teaching hospital is on the way there, and she stopped in but not many injured were coming in. She got to her dorm and was checking on people there when a nurse and doctor came by.

“They were like, ‘Hey, we need volunteers at the hospital now,’ ” Sweta said.

She returned to find patients arriving “like crazy,” she said.

The man who runs the pharmacy in the hospital and others refused to go back inside to retrieve medicine and other emergency items because it was too dangerous, Sweta said. So Sweta joined some volunteers in heading inside to obtain what they could for use outside.

“We started grabbing all the blankets and all the hospital mattress beds, as much as we could.”

She said what followed was her introduction to medicine, Nepal-style, as the IVs and other medical equipment were different from what she had seen in Colorado.

The extent of the wounds she saw, many involving patients who had been buried beneath rubble, also will remain seared in her mind.

“I saw crazy, crazy stuff,” from split skulls to “really, really bad, open fractures.”

A guy who came in with a broken arm also had a slit in his right cheek from his eye to his chin, with his teeth visible through the wound. The sight was too much for Sweta at first.

“I just turned around, I threw up, and I went back to helping him again. It was not easy,” she said.

A lot of people died there, and a lot more were shipped out for hospital care, she said.

She said it felt good to help, “but at the same time I felt so limited because I know so little about these things. I’m getting thrown into this situation and I wished I knew how to do more.”

But she said when she told others at the scene how little she knew about medicine, their response was that she knew more than they did.

“So I just started doing what I could,” she said. “… We were all just doing what we could.”

A QUAKE ZONE

Sweta said the teaching hospital, in Duwakot outside Kathmandu, is ruined. During a major aftershock the day after the first quake, “you could see the hospital just swaying back and forth like it’s a leaf on a tree.”

Her dorm also was heavily damaged. Sweta had left it before the earthquake with only her keys and cellphone. She was prevented at first from returning to her fourth-floor room for safety reasons, but later managed to run up and grab a few essential items like her American passport, laptop, credit cards and a change of clothing.

She stayed two nights at a campus cafeteria with no running water and minimal food and drinking water, and after the campus evacuated that building she went to her aunt’s house. There, their food has been pretty much limited to rice and lentils.

“I feel very fortunate. I at least have had something to eat and a roof over my head. Other people don’t have that,” she said.

She said she’s seen some ugly things, like people fighting for food.

Others are “charging people to get their cellphones charged, which is wrong,” she said.

Prices are going up for everything, she said, and people can’t afford food. Much of the food in Kathmandu comes from farms in surrounding villages, but the food providers have gone back to those villages to be with their families, as have people like electricians and plumbers whose services are needed in the city.

Credit cards don’t work there, and ATM service is limited. Roads are broken up, and hospitals are completely packed, with babies being delivered in the parking lots because the mothers can’t get into the buildings.

“Ambulances are charging crazy amounts of money (for people) to get to the hospital.”

She said she has a cousin with a broken collarbone who probably needs to get surgery.

“He won’t be able to do that for a while,” she said.

People are getting diseases from bad food and water, Sweta said. She walked by one hospital that had about 60 tagged bodies outside that hadn’t been claimed by families. There’s no place to cremate them, she said.

“The bodies are just lined up and they’re starting to stink really bad.”

She said that even before the earthquake, she was having a hard time adjusting to life in the Kathmandu area after leaving Colorado.

Now, “The basics are nonexistent. It’s very minimum. Everybody’s going through a hard time.”

Om said his father has dementia and his mother is paralyzed. His brother had to carry her outside, and the family has been staying under a tarp that has been leaking in the rain.

Sweta said there have been upbeat things happening in Kathmandu as well. A 4-month-old baby was pulled from the debris after 22 hours and survived. People have been taking it upon themselves to cook for others around the city.

“They’re like, ‘Everybody’s free to come eat.’ “

UNCERTAIN FUTURES

Sweta said she doesn’t know what’s next for her, as she weighs a possible return home for the time being. Meanwhile the Lohanis wonder too what the future holds for their other relatives in Kathmandu and for Nepal as a nation, both in coming days and down the road.

“Everybody’s scared” because of the threat of aftershocks, Om said, and they’re dealing with a lack of water and power, and stores that remain closed.

“There are still people there under the rubble,” he added. “They don’t have cranes to remove the rubble.”

Ozus Lohani said he thinks recovery will be hard and a long time coming for a country that lagged in infrastructure to begin with.

“The destruction is huge. It’s all over,” he said.

Om has fielded countless phone calls and in-person inquiries at the restaurant from patrons and others checking on his family, and appreciates the concern.

“We get a lot of sympathy and care from the community,” he said.

Said Ozus, “We’re fortunate to have our family members walk out of this without any harm. But I think they’re still going to have a lot of hardship ahead of them.”

Sweta said, “I have my family here (in Kathmandu) and I could have been in a very worse situation, and I’m not there yet. I’ve seen a lot of crazy, terrible things the last three days. I’m exhausted. I’m tired. I just want to sleep.”
</text>