<url>
http://bookstorm.bookslive.co.za/blog/2015/04/30/gift-of-the-givers-hard-at-work-in-nepal-despite-severely-depleted-equipment/
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Gift of the Givers Hard at Work in Nepal Despite Severely Depleted Equipment
</headline>

<text>
A South African search and rescue team, being co-ordinated by the Gift of the Givers, is hard at work in Kathmandu, Nepal, despite having almost no equipment.

Since Saturday‚ when a magnitude-7.9 earthquake struck the country‚ at least 10 000 people have died and as many as 8 000 are confirmed injured.

However‚ with many of the rural parts of the country yet to be reached by rescue teams‚ it is feared that these numbers could rise.

The South African rescue team got straight to work just hours after arriving in the capital on Wednesday afternoon‚ searching a severely damaged five-storey building after residents heard cries for help from inside.

Their equipment was never loaded onto the plane from Singapore to the Nepal capital, and they had barely dropped off what little they had at the Little Angels school hall they are staying in when the report of the people trapped in a nearby building came through.

While some of the 21-strong search and rescue team continued to unpack‚ others rushed straight to the area.

“We were hoping that we would find somebody‚” said Nico Louw‚ an emergency care officer from Johannesburg. “But we found out that it was 24 hours‚ at least‚ since they last hear something [from inside].”

After asking the gathered crowd of about 30 people to be quiet‚ the team searched the building‚ hoping for some kind of a response. But they never got one.

“We used our search technology and scanned the area where people indicated they heard the sounds coming from. There were no signs of life. Travis [Trower‚ one of the members of the team also from Johannesburg] said he could smell bodies‚ or a body – we don’t know actually how many people were trapped there‚” he added.

With the light fading fast‚ the badly dilapidated building “leaning a lot” and a reported 4-magnitude aftershock hitting the Nepal capital‚ it was deemed unsafe to continue with the search.

“It was really dangerous [so] we just went in and out very quickly‚” Louw said.

To make matters worse‚ almost all of the team’s equipment – and several bags of luggage – never arrived in Kathmandu. This would now only arrive in the capital on Friday at the earliest.

“We have some medication‚ not all of it. We have some rescue equipment‚ not all of it. We have some food‚ but not all of it. We are severely depleted in all areas‚” Louw said.

Gift of the Givers team leader Ahmed Bham said the team would continue to work on Thursday‚ despite the lack of equipment.

“Our team of six medics will go into hospitals and start helping there [while] search and rescue teams will be assigned to areas in Kathmandu that have been devastated but have not yet received any attention. There are still a number of areas like that‚” Bham said.

A second team of Gift of the Givers volunteers will land in Nepal on today (Thursday) or Friday‚ along with search and rescue dogs and other equipment that could not be brought on the first plane‚ which left Johannesburg at 2 PM on Tuesday.

Once the two groups have gathered‚ they will head into Sindhupalchauk‚ about three hours’ drive from Kathmandu. This rural village has not yet been visited by any search and rescue teams.

According to Pradeep Kumar Shrestha‚ honorary consulate to South Africa in Nepal‚ several thousand people could be trapped‚ injured or dead in Sindhupalchauk.

Source: RDM News Wire

Book details
</text>