<url>
http://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/nepal-earthquake-helicopter-go-second-9155025
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Helicopter to go on second search for missing Welshmen says trekking firm boss
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Rescue workers will today make a second attempt to reach three Welshmen trapped in a mountain village in Nepal following Saturday’s earthquake.

A helicopter tried to reach brothers Jason and Darren Russell, 28 and 26, and friend Daniel Hughes, 36, on Wednesday, but failed to find them.

Om Shahi, who runs the Nepalese trekking firm used by the three, says the helicopter will go up again on Thursday.

The trio, from Wrexham, had travelled to Nepal about a week ago to go trekking with Mr Shahi’s company Hard Rock Trek in a valley north of Kathmandu.

They were accompanied by guide Chandra Magar, 48, and porters Babu Thakuri, 27, and Yam Bdr Rana, 27.

RELATED: Watch terrifying moment avalanche hits Everest base camp

Mr Shahi said he has spoken to the guide several times since the earthquake including on Thursday.

He said the men are stuck in Tallu village in the Nuwakot area where locals are helping them with food while they await their rescue.

Staying with villagers

Mr Shahi said: “The helicopter didn’t find the exact location (on Wednesday). Today the helicopter will be sent, but I don’t know when - it’s up to the Home Ministry.

“They are fine because I got a call from their guide. They are staying with the villagers and they are eating the local food with the villagers.”

The Russell family has said they are treating reports the brothers are safe with caution and they have not had an update.

The Nepal earthquake in pictures:

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has confirmed the first British fatality, while officials are “urgently investigating” reports that another Briton has been killed at Mount Everest base camp.

Hundreds in embassy

Some 300 British citizens have been housed in the embassy in the Nepalese capital Kathmandu since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake claimed more than 5,000 lives.

But more than 100 Britons stranded in the country were today reunited with loved ones in emotional scenes after landing back on home soil.

The first UK aid flight carrying 120 people landed at a private hangar at Stansted Airport in Essex.

Among those on board the Department for International Development (DfID) chartered Boeing 767 - which flew aid out to Nepal on Sunday - were children and the elderly and people chosen as a priority because of health conditions.

Some spoke of their lucky escapes and said they had seen many people, mainly locals, who had suffered far worse.

RELATED: How we must keep Nepal's aid cash out of the pockets of corrupt politicians

Ingrid Chiene, from Stroud, was greeted by her sons Harry, 12, and Ethan, 10.

She said: “When it happened the whole building was moving from side to side and we thought it was going to fall down.

“We looked outside and we could see a Mexican wave of other buildings moving.

“The embassy staff have been absolutely fantastic and we’ve been well looked after.

“I’ve missed my kids and husband so much so I’m really happy to be back with them.”

The youngest passenger was a four-month-old baby while the oldest are thought to have been in their 60s.

The flight left Kathmandu and stopped in Dubai on the way home.

Red Cross volunteers were on hand at the airport to help anybody with minor injuries or who was overcome with emotion.

Most safe but beyond contact

A DfID spokesman said there were thought to be between 500 and 1,000 Britons in Nepal. Most are safe but some have been unable to make contact with loved ones because of the collapse of communications infrastructure.

Mr Hammond earlier said hundreds of Britons had now been accounted for but the situation remained “extremely challenging” because of widespread infrastructure damage.

Search and rescue teams, medics and armed services from the UK are on the ground helping those in need, he added.

Mr Hammond said: “Our teams are working closely with the Nepalese army and authorities to locate British nationals in remote areas and get them to safety.

“We know that this is an agonising time for those who are waiting for news of loved ones.

RELATED: Nepal Earthquake: Firefighters from Wales fly out to help rescue efforts

“But the scale of the disaster and the limited communications means that it may be some time before we can account for everyone. Many are likely to be in a place of safety but not able to communicate easily.”

Some £19m had been donated to the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) Nepal Earthquake Appeal just a day after it was launched, while Britain is preparing to send RAF Chinook helicopters to help with the relief effort.

Nepal’s prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could eventually rise to more than 10,000.

Eight million people have been affected by the disaster which has wiped out entire villages, according to the United Nations.
</text>