<url>
http://focustaiwan.tw/news/asoc/201504300033.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Three Taiwanese in Nepal airlifted to safety by Indian army
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu, April 30 (CNA) Three Taiwanese who were trekking through the valley in Langtang National Park, which is 130 km north of Nepal's capital of Kathmandu, when the earthquake rattled the region, called Taiwan's representative office in New Delhi, India, Wednesday afternoon, saying that they were safe.



Chang Kui-chen (張桂真), told the office that she and Chen Yen-chun (陳彥君), Chen Yu-chin (陳玉琴), and their British friend Michael Tandy were stranded at Langtang Village after the quake, and were airlifted out along with 70 other visitors by India's military helicopters April 29.



Chen said in a Facebook post that for 4 days they were trapped in a 3,500-m high village that had been hit by an avalanche, with scarce food and firewood.



Chang expressed gratitude to Taiwan's representative office in India for its efforts to locate and seek help for them.



The office is Taiwan's governmental institute nearest to Kathmandu.



Meanwhile, although the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said there are still six Taiwanese unaccounted for in Nepal, a Taiwanese citizen familiar with Nepalese affairs said on her Facebook account Thursday that three of them are safe.



Ruby Chien (簡如邠), a writer who has visited the Himalayan country on numerous occasions in the past, said in a Facebook post that three of the six listed by the foreign ministry as unaccounted for thus far are safe.



Chien said two of them, including a backpacker with the surname Tsai, and a volunteer worker with the family name of Wang, had already returned safely to Taiwan.



Chien said their Taiwanese relatives confirmed their safety in response to requests posted by her on her Facebook account for information about their whereabouts.



The third, with the surname of Hsian who went to Nepal for religious training, is currently on a spiritual retreat, said Chien.



Chen Lung-jin (陳龍錦), the deputy chief of the Department of East Asian and Pacific Affairs under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a news conference Thursday morning that the ministry has received requests to locate 288 Taiwanese in Nepal after a magnitude-7.8 temblor hit the South Asian state on April 25, and 282 of them are confirmed safe thus far.



Chen said the ministry has set up four centers in Nepal to provide emergency aid, and two of its officials were in that country in the company of a 7-member team organized by the Ministry of Health and Welfare to assess the medical aid needed by that country.



By 9:00 p.m. Thursday, the ministry said in an update that two Taiwanese remained unaccounted for.



(By Ho Horn-ru, Tang Pei-chun, Maubo Chang)

ENDITEM/ke
</text>