<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/waikato-times/news/68146169/kiwinepalese-couple-collects-blankets-and-clothes-for-nepal-village.html
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Kiwi-Nepalese couple collects blankets and clothes for Nepal village
</headline>

<text>
Kiwi-Nepalese couple collects blankets and clothes for Nepal village

Robert Steven Kiwi-Nepalese couple Gemma and Rabin Tamang, with 21-month-old Chorten, are collecting donated supplies for Rabin's family in Nepal at Wild South clothing store with the help of store manager Jean Russell, left.

An earthquake sent Opotiki-born Gemma to Nepal to reunite with her trek-guide-lover Rabin Tamang in 2011.

Now, the couple have organised to send donations of supplies to help Rabin's Nepalese family rebuild their lives after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake near Kathmandu flattened their house.

Rabin said Saturday's earthquake hit his home village Birta Deurali on the plainest of days:"My dad was looking after the goats, my mum was carrying compost, my grandmother inside the house peeling potatoes, and then the ground started moving."

Supplied Make-shift shelters made from collapsed homes in Taupo-resident's Rabin Tamang's home village in Nepal.

His father ran back to the house for Rabin's 86-year-old grandmother, but she had made it outside, Rabin said.

The mud, rock and tile-roofed home of Rabin's parents, grandmother and six siblings soon collapsed into rubble, with all their clothes and possessions beneath it.

"All they've got are the clothes they're standing in – and possibly some potatoes," Rabin said.

Supplied Rabin Tamang and his Kiwi bride, Gemma, on their wedding day in 2012.

Following correspondence with Rabin and Gemma, clothing retailer Wild South on Horomatangi St will be collecting donations of clothes, blankets and camping supplies until May 10.

The donations will then be packaged and sent to Auckland, where community group New Nepalese Youth in New Zealand will arrange for the supplies to be sent to Birta Deurali and other Nepalese villages in need, Rabin said.

The group had already fundraised $12,000 in Auckland, he said.

Rabin – who works at Taupo Bungy – said he heard from his sister Sarina soon after the earthquake, but the phone cut out, and he couldn't contact anyone for two days.

Gemma said Rabin was distraught on Monday and Tuesday. "He pretty much tortured himself looking at photos and videos."

Gemma - who works as a manager-in-training at Michael Hill Jewellers in Taupo – said she passed on lessons she had learnt from Christchurch's 2011 earthquake.

"I said: 'Stop ringing your family because the batteries will die. There won't be any cellphone network - just turn everything off and try to sleep.'

"But it's hard to do."

The couple had met in November 2010 on the last day of a trek in Nepal.

Gemma said Rabin had been her mother and sisters' trek guide.

"But he wasn't my guide," she said. "He was on his way out of another trek."

Gemma said she was taken with Nepalese Rabin from the first moment. "I was like a little school girl – a crumbling mess."

The pair spent six days together before Gemma flew back to New Zealand. Head-over-heels in love, the pair began a long-distance relationship while Gemma continued working at a mall in Christchurch – until the February 22 quake.

"The mall fell down around us, basically," Gemma said.

"So I rung up my mum and said, 'I'm going to Nepal'."

Gemma spent seven weeks, and then a year with Rabin in the small village of Birta Deurali near Kathmandu, where she married him.

Following correspondence with Immigration New Zealand to grant Rabin a work visa, Gemma returned to New Zealand with him in December 2012.

Now eight months pregnant with their second child, she said had been gobsmacked by the support her family had been given following the quake.

Gemma said she had only met Wild South Taupo's manager Jean Russell earlier this year in a professional setting, and was very grateful when Russell suggested the Wild South store collect donations.

Russell said had contacted the company's Christchurch head office, and was pushing for the company to make a corporate donation to help earthquake victims in Nepal.

She said she had visited Nepal with her daughter in November 2014, as well as 35 years earlier, and the country held a special place in her heart.

"I think what Kiwis enjoy most about Nepal is the people," Russell said.

"They have nothing, but they'll give you everything."

★ Donations of clothing, footwear, bedding, wet weather gear, basic first aid, purification tables, tarpaulins, torches and headlights for Birta Deurali can be delivered to Wild South at 36 Horomatangi St, Taupo.

★ Monetary donations are also welcome at givealittle.co.nz/cause/tamangfamily

- Stuff
</text>