<url>
http://www.kentnews.co.uk/news/family_of_kent_man_missing_in_nepal_criticise_foreign_office_1_4055423
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Family of Kent man missing in Nepal criticise Foreign Office
</headline>

<text>
Family of Kent man missing in Nepal criticise Foreign Office

Nepal Archant

The death toll continues to rise

Email this article to a friend To send a link to this page you must be logged in.

Usurv

The family of a Kent trekker missing after the Nepal earthquake have described the Foreign Office as ‘shambolic’.

The Carapiet family from Bearstead raised the alarm after they heard about the disaster, as their son Matt, 23, was trekking to Langtang Valley, 20 miles north of capital Kathmandu, two days before the quake.

In a statement to the Daily Mail newspaper they said: “Langtang Village was almost destroyed in a landslide, as were several smaller villages nearby. Matt may have stayed there, or he may have walked back to lower villages where survivors are known to be stranded.”

They claim they registered Matt’s name and their details with the Foreign Office, but when they rang for a progress check, claimed staff had no record. They rang again, and found their own contact details were wrong. In their statement, they called the Foreign Office effort “shambolic”.

They added that their son, who was due to start a masters degree in architecture, already had a knee injury.

His sister Christina, 25, told the paper: “We are all really worried, we are just praying for a miracle really. We haven’t heard any news at all. I just want to say to Matt, we miss you and please get in touch as soon as you can.”

The Foreign Office has not yet made a comment about the complaints.

Also understood to be missing is Derek Waters, 56, from Dartford.

Rachel Lovera, from Tonbridge, suffered a 36 hour wait before she was contacted by her trekking son Seb saying he was safe. She told other families: “Don’t give up hope.”

It’s thought the death toll is set to rise even further and could pass 10,000, including relatives of Gurkhas based in Kent.

The Gurkha Peace Foundation, based in Ashford, has been collecting money to help victims, and chairman Brian Staley said: “We will be working with other organisations but every penny we collect will go direct to Nepal, where it will be monitored wherever the greatest need is. The situation is desperate.”

They have collected in Canterbury, Ashford and Folkestone, and they hope to appeal to the 65,000 people from Nepal in the UK, many of whom are in the south east.

Around 1,000 Nepalese in Maidstone have also collected large quantities of supplies it hopes to fly out soon. As news of the first British fatality emerged, over 100 Brits were flown home. Up to 1,000 Brits were thought to have been in Nepal at the time of the quake, but accuracy is tough because there is ‘no single co-ordinated list’ the government said. Some 200 Brits in Nepal have been helped by our embassy there.

Retired Gurkha Dhan Gurung from Folkestone said: “My brother rang and said my sister-in-law had broken her leg, but not too badly. These people in Nepal need help from the world, including food, medicine and shelter, including clothes. It is very, very tragic.”

Another former Gurkha, Bryan Magar, added that members of his cousin’s family were among those missing, and added: “They might be buried under the earth now.”

Donations to the disaster fund can be made at dec.org.uk or taken to Independent Insurance Services, Church House, 136 Sandgate Road, Folkestone CT20 2BN between 8.30am and 5.30pm.
</text>