<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11563804/First-Everest-avalanche-victim-named.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
First Everest avalanche victim named as Google executive
</headline>

<text>
A climber killed in an avalanche on Mount Everest caused by a 7.9 magnitude earthquake in Nepal has been named as a Google executive who used to photograph peaks for Google Maps.

Daniel Fredinburg, 33, the head of privacy for the company's secretive Google [x] laboratory, had been travelling with three other employees through Sheffield-based firm Jagged Globe when he suffered fatal head injuries.

A total of 18 climbers are thought to have been killed in the avalanche - making it the deadliest day on Mount Everest. Among the victims is Dr Marisa Eve Girawong, 29, who was killed when ice and rock crushed the 18,000ft-altitude base camp where she worked as a medic for Madison Mountaineering.

Dr Girwaong, from New Jersey, had studied at Rutgers University before specialising in mountaineering medication at the University of Leicester in the UK.

#tbt to last year hanging with Pasang the road builder. Our fashion sense was on point last year. Not sure what happened. #Everest #Sherpa #hero A photo posted by Dan Fredinburg (@danfredinburg) on Apr 9, 2015 at 3:59am PDT

Fredinburg's younger sister Megan confirmed his death, paying tribute to her "hilarious, strong-willed" brother.

She posted on his Instagram page: "This is Dan's little sister Megan. I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it.

Avalanche at Everest base camp (Photo: Azim Afif)

"We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you."

Fredinburg, who photographed some of the world's high peaks for Google Maps, used to date One Tree Hill actress Sophia Bush.

Bush on Saturday night paid tribute to "one of the greatest loves of her life": "There are no adequate words. Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards, I'll likely never find them all.



Dan Fredinburg with Sophia Bush at an awards ceremony in 2013 (Rex)

"I, and so many of my loved ones, lost an incredible friend. Dan Fredinburg was one-of-a-kind. Fearless. Funny. A dancing robot who liked to ride dinosaurs and chase the sun and envision a better future for the world."

Fredinburg had climbed Everest last April, when he narrowly survived another avalanche that killed 16 Sherpas.

Jagged Globe had more than 70 climbers at Everent when the quake hit.

In a statement they said: "It is with the greatest sorrow that we report the death of one of our Everest team members, Daniel Fredinburg. Two other team members have non-life threatening injuries, as a result of the avalanche that struck base camp during the earthquake and its aftershocks.

• Ancient cities destroyed as over 1,300 lives lost

• Video: buildings destroyed and injured treated

"They are being looked after in base camp. All Sherpas and other team members are uninjured and are safe in base camp or in Gorak Shep, a nearby cluster of tea houses and lodges.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to Dan’s family and friends whilst we pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this Himalayan nation."

Google also released a statement, saying they would donate $1 million to the response. "Sadly, we lost one of our own in this tragedy. Dan Fredinburg, a long-time member of the Privacy organisation in Mountain View, was in Nepal with three other Googlers, hiking Mount Everest. He has passed away. The other three Googlers with him are safe and we are working to get them home quickly."

This is Dans little sister Megan. I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it. We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you. A photo posted by Dan Fredinburg (@danfredinburg) on Apr 25, 2015 at 11:27am PDT

On his Instagram page Fredinburg, who joined the company in 2007, described himself as an "adventurer", adding: "I want everyone to think like Google [x] and have the heart of an adventurer."

Dozens of Britons are still missing and unaccounted for following the earthquake in Nepal which has killed upwards of 1,300 people.

It emerged on Saturday night that one Suffolk woman feared to have been caught up in the disaster had rung her father just a few hours before the earthquake struck to wish him a happy birthday.

But 22-year-old Julia Carroll’s family have heard nothing from her since that call.

Her father, John Carroll, 59, from Boxford, Suffolk, said his daughter had been planning to go on a white water rafting trip on Saturday, but he did not know if she had managed to escape the earthquake when it hit Kathmandu.

He told The Telegraph: “I spoke to her on the phone on Friday afternoon when she rang home to wish me a happy birthday. We are desperately worried. It’s a tragic situation out there, with so many deaths and so much destruction and we can only hope she is safe and gets in touch.”

Miss Carroll, who graduated in law last summer, had been travelling since February and had been in Nepal for three weeks.

Another Briton feared to be missing, Laura Wood, 23, from Huddersfield, was described by friends as a “glowing lovely beautiful young girl often dressed in hippy type clothing”.

Miss Wood had been trekking in the Himalayas without any means of contact, leaving her family and friends unable to get in touch with her.
</text>