<url>
http://www.prweb.com/releases/2015/05/prweb12691334.htm
</url>

<date>
20150430
</date>

<headline>
Curacao and American Red Cross Together for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Red Cross Fundraiser Add “We join forces in this delicate moment for Nepal and its people by fundraising to bring more help to them, we understand perfectly what they are going through” said Elsa Baruch – Curacao Children’s Foundation Managera quotable

Curacao and the American Red Cross will be collecting funds at all Curacao Stores for the relief efforts after the earthquake in Nepal. Stores are located in Los Angeles, Panorama, South Gate, Huntington Park, Lynwood, Anaheim, Santa Ana, San Bernardino, Chino, Phoenix and Tucson.

“We join forces in this delicate moment for Nepal and its people by fundraising to bring more help to them, we understand perfectly what they are going through” said Elsa Baruch – Curacao Children’s Foundation Manager.

The American Red Cross has disaster specialists on the way to Nepal and is committing an initial $300,000 to the relief effort. The American Red Cross is working closely with the Nepal Red Cross Society (NRCS) and global Red Cross network to coordinate additional support. The American Red Cross is providing remote mapping and information management support to the earthquake response to obtain a more accurate assessment of the destruction.

Red Cross on the Ground

The Nepal Red Cross is providing first aid, search and rescue, blood to medical facilities in the capital and support to first responders. The NRCS has extensive experience in responding to natural disasters and plays a leading role in the government’s contingency plan.

The Red Cross has approximately 19,000 non-food relief kits available in Nepal which include clothing, kitchen sets, tarpaulins, mosquito nets, and personal hygiene items. Nearly 1,200 tarpaulins have already been distributed to displaced families and the Red Cross is activating its logistics systems in Kuala Lumpur and Dubai to mobilize additional relief materials in the coming days.

How to Help

To help those affected by the Nepal Earthquake, visit Redcross.org or contact your local American Red Cross chapter , in addition to any Curacao Store.

Help Finding Loved Ones

The Nepal Red Cross Society and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) are working to reunite families separated by the earthquake in Nepal. To learn more, visit the Nepal Earthquake Restoring Family Links page on the ICRC web site.

Extensive Devastation

The earthquake is the largest to hit Nepal since 1934 and already has caused significant destruction and loss of life. Accessibility to remote areas surrounding Kathmandu is a major challenge, hampering search and rescue and relief efforts. At least 2,000 people have been killed, with thousands more injured. At least 15 aftershocks, ranging from magnitude 5 to 6.6, caused further damage to buildings and increased the risk of collapse. Electricity and telephone connectivity is intermittent and mobile services are experiencing heavy congestion. Hospitals continue to function but are stretched to the limits.

Long-standing Relationship

The American Red Cross has been working with the Nepal Red Cross (NRCS) since 1999, supporting both disaster relief and disaster preparedness programming.

About the American Red Cross:

The American Red Cross shelters, feeds and provides emotional support to victims of disasters; supplies about 40 percent of the nation's blood; teaches skills that save lives; provides international humanitarian aid; and supports military members and their families. The Red Cross is a not-for-profit organization that depends on volunteers and the generosity of the American public to perform its mission. For more information, please visitredcross.org or visit us on Twitter at @RedCross.

About Curacao

Curacao is one of the leaders in the retail industry in the market they have presence; its chain of department stores are included consistently among the top 50 electronic and appliance stores in the United States. With its new fresh image, plus its culture service, Curacao places by itself for the future attracting an ample base of buyers. Each of its 11 stores located in California and Arizona counts with an average of 100 thousands square feet that offers to its customers a wide range of products, services and its proprietary credit. Curacao has been well known on how to capture the consumer, by innovating and marking tendencies for three decades. Founded in 1981, headquarter is based in its main store in downtown Los Angeles. Curacao has stores in California, Arizona and soon in Nevada. For more information visit: http://www.icuracao.com.
</text>