<url>
https://uk.news.yahoo.com/nepal-admits-mistakes-over-earthquake-response-052904292.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Quake Victim Survived By Drinking Own Urine
</headline>

<text>
A man who was pulled alive from the rubble in Nepal has said he survived by drinking his own urine after being buried by the earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people.

Rishi Khanal gave up all hope as his lips cracked and his nails turned white before he was extracted from the ruins of a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu by a French-Nepali team.

The 28-year-old, who spent three days trapped with dead bodies, is one of the thousands struggling to recover after Nepal's worst natural disaster for more than 80 years.

Mr Khanal, who will now undergo an operation to amputate his leg, said after being pulled out alive: "I was sure no one was coming for me. I was certain I was going to die."

"I kept banging against the rubble and finally someone responded and came to help. I hadn't eaten or had anything to drink so I drank my own urine. It feels good. I am so thankful."

A total of 5,006 people are known to have died in Nepal alone and nearly have been 9,600 injured.

One family laid 18 relatives to rest on Wednesday after the building they lived in collapsed in the quake.

"I don't know why this happened. But I don't blame anyone. I don't blame the government, I don't blame the gods," Shankar Pradhan said as he washed his daughter's feet for the cremation.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala warned the death toll could reach 10,000 as remote mountain villages are reached.

Those on board helicopters trying to reach some of those areas said entire hillsides had collapsed burying settlements.

A health official in Laprak, a village in Gorkha district, best known as the home of Gurkha soldiers, estimated that 1,600 of the 1,700 houses in the village had been razed.

Aid has started to reach some of the remote regions but agencies warned that it will take time to get to those in the hardest-hit areas.

Meanwhile, the Foreign Office has confirmed that a non-resident Briton is among the dead as the UK Government announced it was increasing its aid contribution to £15m.

It has also been announced that the amount raised by Britain's Disasters Emergency Committee to help those affected by the 7.8-magnitude tremor quickly hit £19m.

A TV appeal, backed by the Queen and the Prince of Wales, was made on Tuesday night by Joanna Lumley, whose father served alongside Nepali soldiers in the 6th Gurkha Rifles.

A team of more than 60 UK search and rescue responders with dogs has arrived and Britain is sending an additional 30 medics and heavy lifting equipment to move aid supplies off aircraft and ease congestion at Kathmandu airport.

An RAF C-17 carrying Gurkha engineers and a chartered Boeing carrying rescue teams and supplies have been unable to land because of a shortage of landing slots.

Some banks in Kathmandu reopened on Wednesday, allowing people access to cash to pay for food and water that has risen steeply in price.

Frustration also boiled over at a spot where the Government had promised to lay on buses to allow people to get home to outlying regions.

Riot police were sent in to try to contain the situation after people armed with sticks surged into the street, attacking other vehicles when the buses failed to appear.

Other protesters forced a truck carrying drinking water off the road and climbed on top of it, throwing the bottles into the crowd.

Hundreds of tourists, including about 100 Israelis, were reportedly stranded in Langtang in Rasuwa district, a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu hit by an avalanche on Tuesday.

Tensions between foreigners and Nepalis desperate for relief were starting to rise, rescuers said, with fights breaking out over food and places on helicopters.

Nepal's government has acknowledged it has been overwhelmed and Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi continued to appeal for help despite appearing to contradict an earlier statement.
</text>