<url>
http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/573831/Nepal-earthquake-Kathmandu-Tim-Mosedale
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Now police battle angry crowds as survivors try to flee Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
GETTY There's chaos at the Nepalese boarder as earthquake victims try to flee

Heavily armed officers manned barbed wire barricades in a bid to prevent thousands of survivors fleeing the capital Kathmandu. Scuffles broke out after the desperate hordes were told there would be no bus service to help them leave the devastated city. But witnesses told of tension elsewhere as relief agencies and volunteers struggled to deliver aid to the sick and homeless. Starving villagers refused to allow some supply trucks through and one survivor told how scavengers looted their belongings. Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala insisted the authorities were working as hard as they could. “The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing,” he said. “It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal.” **AMAZING PICTURES SHOW A BABY RESCUED ALIVE FROM THE RUBBLE IN NEPAL**

The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala

The most fiery exchanges came as thousands of people gathered near Kathmandu bus station for vehicles to take them away. Kishor Kavre, a 25-year-old student,said: “We’re in a hurry to get home to see our families but we’ve no idea when they’re coming now. ” Police were diverted from the nearby parliament building to calm the protesters down. In Sangam Chowk, a village outside the capital, furious villagers blocked the road with tyres, preventing two trucks loaded with rice, noodles and biscuits. They also blocked a convoy of three army trucks with supplies, leading to a tense standoff with armed soldiers. One of the protesters, Udhav Giri, 34, said: “We have been given no food by the government.” British mountaineer Tim Mosedale, 49, who came through the disaster while at Mount Everest’s Camp One, used his Facebook page to report theft among survivors.

“Unfortunately, after the dust had settled, there was a bit of opportunistic scavenging and lots of US dollars have gone missing from wallets, kitbags, envelopes and pouches that were strewn across the Khumbu glacier. “I don’t hold any angst against the folk that did this as I see it as an inevitable occurrence.” Foreign Office staff had evidence that two Britons had died in the avalanches triggered by last Saturday’s powerful earthquake. Officials confirmed that an unnamed expatriate had been killed and said they were investigating reports that a second UK national had died at base camp. But Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond added that 120 British survivors were now on their way home on board a plane which had delivered aid to the emergency zone. Elsewhere, French rescuers freed a man who had been stuck for three days in the ruins of a three-story hotel in Kathmandu. Rishi Khanal, 27, told the team he thought he would perish but managed to fight of dehydration by drinking his own urine.
</text>