<url>
http://asiancorrespondent.com/132528/life-in-kathmandu-slowly-returning-to-normal-as-quake-toll-tops-4700/
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Life in Kathmandu slowly returning to normal as quake toll tops 4,700
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese people sit atop buses as they head to their villages in Kathmandu, Nepal, Wednesday. Pic: AP.

44 Social Buzz

While many villages across Nepal are still waiting for rescue and relief teams, life in the capital, Kathmandu, was slowly returning to normal Wednesday as the official death toll topped 4,700.

Municipal workers on Wednesday began cleaning the streets, and the “kalimati bazaar” — the vegetable market — has reopened. Before first light, truckloads of fresh produce were unloaded and customers began to arrive.

Thousands of people lined up at bus stations in Kathmandu where the government is providing free transportation for people hoping to travel to their hometowns and villages. The government has even deployed school buses to supplement the overstretched service.

Many of the people from other districts who work in the capital have received little news of their families and loved ones since Saturday’s magnitude 7.8 temblor, which killed more than 4,700 people and devastated the infrastructure including communication lines.

Others are simply scared of staying on so close to the quake’s epicenter.

“I am hoping to get on a bus, any bus heading out of Kathmandu. I am too scared to be staying in Kathmandu. The house near my rented apartment collapsed. It was horrible. I have not gone indoors in many days. I would rather leave than a live life of fear in Kathmandu,” said Raja Gurung, who was leaving for his home in the mountains of west Nepal.

Suresh Sah, a construction worker from southern Nepal, said that when the quake hit, “the first thing I thought about was my son back in the village. I have been trying to leave but there was no bus available. I just want to hold my family.”

Aid agencies, including World Vision, say they face huge challenges as they respond to the weekend’s deadly earthquake.

World Vision says the death toll — now at 4,700 — will likely rise as response teams continue to trek to the most remote areas near the epicenter.

The group says aid workers are hindered by a congested airport in capital Kathmandu, impassable and destroyed roads which have left several remote villages still largely cut off.

The group says international aid agencies are also stretched thin as they respond to multiple humanitarian crises across the world including Syria and South Sudan,

Phillip Ewert, Operations Director for World Vision in Nepal, says, “we know the clock is ticking for those impacted by the earthquake in some of the most remote areas — aid is a matter of life or death for many at this point.”
</text>