<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/74-singaporeans-return/1814674.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
74 Singaporeans return home from quake-stricken Nepal
</headline>

<text>
An emotional reunion at Paya Lebar Air Base early Wednesday (Apr 29) for 74 Singaporeans and Permanent Residents and their loved ones, after they were flown back home from earthquake-hit Nepal via an RSAF C-130.

SINGAPORE: At 12.30am on Wednesday (Apr 29), a Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 plane touched down at Paya Lebar Air Base, marking the end of a long and harrowing journey home for those on board. Many among the 74 Singaporeans and Permanent Residents ferried had spent more than a night at the airport in Kathmandu, desperate to get a flight back to Singapore.



Teary reunion at Paya Lebar airbase: 74 Singaporeans and PRs are back home after experiencing the #NepalQuake. (Video: Kimberly Spykerman) http://cna.asia/1Jy2uxV Posted by Channel NewsAsia Singapore on Tuesday, 28 April 2015





One of them was operations executive Lim Kun Jie. “Tons of people were waiting, queuing up all the way outside the airport even, just to get into the airport to get a ticket out of Kathmandu as soon as they can," he said. "People actually camped overnight on the airport grounds partly because the airport has open space, and people were afraid of aftershocks, so it was the safest place to be.

He admitted to being worried at the time. "Being in an earthquake was a first for me. And because we were in a foreign country, we didn't speak their language, so we couldn't get the most updated information on the earthquake situation.”

"WE LEARNT PATIENCE"

Retiree Wong CC described his time in Nepal as a learning experience. “We learnt patience; how to wait patiently for everything. We also learnt not to take things for granted in the case of crisis and emergency. The amazing thing was that everybody was very patient. No ugly scenes. People just waited, and that's the beauty of Nepal,” he said.

Advertisement

Advertisement

The C-130 pilots had hoped to land in Kathmandu on Monday, but were unable to do so due to airport congestion and bad weather.

"From our altitude, we could see people gathered around in open fields in makeshift huts and tents. At the airport, there was a lot of confusion; a lot of people trying to get out," said Major Sean Yang, the pilot of the RSAF C-130. "Visibility wasn't very good, on top of the weather (we experienced) going in, we didn't have the best view of what's going on.”

"WE WERE VERY WORRIED"

It was also difficult for those waiting for their loved ones to return. As the buses pulled up, there was an outpouring of emotion.

Mrs Jessie Goh was glad to see her son return. "We were very worried about him, so when we knew he was safe, we were really happy,” she said. Her daughter said they jumped with joy.

Mr Chan SC was also anxious to see his son. "I couldn't get in touch with him because he was unable to get an internet connection. I kept on sending him WhatsApp messages but I didn't realise WhatsApp depends on a Wi-Fi connection. Now he is back, I'm happy,” he said.

Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Masagos Zulkifli was also there to welcome the returning Singaporeans. He told reporters that of the over 200 Singaporeans who had e-registered with the Foreign Affairs Ministry, five remain uncontactable.

"We'll work as hard as we can to make sure these five are contacted, and to get them out of Nepal as soon as possible," he said.

Mr Masagos added that given the scale of the disaster, the Singapore Government is giving another S$150,000 to the Singapore Red Cross to help with relief efforts. This comes on top of the S$100,000 donation that was made earlier.

"WE HAD TO TRUST OUR NAVIGATION, TRAINING": RSAF C-130 PILOT

On Wednesday evening, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen posted a conversation between Major Yang and himself on Facebook. In the conversation, Major Yang gave his account of the mission to Nepal and the subsequent flight to bring a group of Singaporeans home.

"There was a lot of confusion going into Kathmandu on Monday. We were expecting to land... but they were fully backed up," said Major Yang, adding that he diverted the plane to the nearest airfield in Patna, India, later that night.

Video: Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen's conversation with Major Yang



Landing in Kathmandu was also a challenge due to inclement weather. "We just had to trust our navigation; our training to be safe," said Major Yang, going on to explain the challenges of landing in Kathmandu Airport due to its geographical location.

Major Yang added that Singaporeans on board the plane were in "very good spirits" and "very grateful" to be on their way home, in spite of turbulence while flying out of Kathmandu.

When Dr Ng thanked Major Yang for flying the group of Singaporeans back, Major Yang said: "No problem, Sir. We were just doing our job, all of us were."
</text>