<url>
http://www.afternoondc.in/letters/natural-catastrophe/article_137495
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Natural catastrophe
</headline>

<text>
Are earthquake, unseasonal rain, drought, etc nature's way of taking revenge? In the last couple of months one has seen the fury of nature and the devastation it has left. Human beings have to learn so much from nature. Two things that stand out are non interference and non discrimination. Nature doesn't interfere with man, but man does. Nature doesn't discriminate between rich and poor, urban or rural, literate or illiterate; but sadly man does.



There is a lesson to be learnt from these. One can't alive the dead but by taking the right steps one certainly can pay a fitting tribute to the departed souls. May those who have perished in this massive earthquake RIP.



One is not reducing the grief and pain of those affected by this nature's fury but then let us also remain focussed that man made tragedy is directly affecting our farmers. Hope this quake doesn't bury Gajendra and his sacrifice. RIP all the departed souls!

— Abdul Monim, Vashi



A massive earthquake of 7.9 magnitude on Richter Scale and a series of aftershocks hit several parts of Nepal and the adjoining areas including Indian sub-continent. Disaster management failed to take up as people faced high risk after the recent earthquake. More than 1500 have died so far and the death toll could go up as the debris are still to be cleared. National calamity ripped through Nepal, and Indian Government provided the best help in rehabilitation.



Despite the relentless services of Army, Air Force and Navy officers in earthquake affected areas, the situation is alarming. Relief work should be taken on war foot. The compelling requirement of time is to deploy more and more personnel in rescue team to restore peace in Nepal. Indian Government deserves all praise for its swift action by providing much needed relief measures. Similarly the Union Government made elaborate arrangements to bring back people of Indian nationals stranded in Kathmandu and other areas of Nepal.

— C.K. Subramaniam, Sanpada



The destruction in Nepal has reminded us yet again that timely and accurate prediction of natural disasters may often be difficult. But there can simply be no excuse for not ramping up our disaster preparedness. Many ancient temples and historical landmarks in Kathmandu including 19th century Dharahara Tower have completely collapsed. The quake was also strongly felt in India, from the Himalayan region to the Indo-Gangetic plain that claimed at least 40 lives primarily in Bihar.



The Indian government has responded promptly, dashing off National Disaster Relief Force personnel, equipment and supplies to Nepal and Bihar.

According to India’s seismic zone classification, over three dozen Indian cities fall in Zone 4 and Zone 5, which are the highest risk zones, covering most of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, West Bengal and the seven North-Eastern states. However, the catastrophe has provided us with an occasion to reassess our own strategies of disaster management.

— Bhagwan Thadani, Mumbai



A natural calamity like earthquake is beyond the control of mankind and technology. But it is a fact that now earthquakes are more frequent in India too. Further, as per TV news channel reports much more danger is under Himalayan Mountains too. Adequate and all possible measure must be taken to minimise such unfortunate shocks to mankind.



A major safeguard is to follow the rules and regulations for the construction of houses and office buildings. In comparison to legally constructed buildings, unauthorized constructions are more vulnerable. Fire safety norms must be in place. The rules must be tightened in earthquake-prone zones, and the National Capital Region is one of them. Safety measures and guidance must be widely publicised. Now is the time to prepare for the future.

— Mahesh Kapasi, New Delhi



It is rightly said in a section of the media that “Earth shifted and Heavens came down” in Nepal. Sadly mother nature became cruel to Nepal causing intense damage to precious lives and property. Even the heritage sites have been razed to ground but how wonder is that the Holy Pashupatinath temple is intact – that is the divine power of Lord Shiva. Strangely even Lord hiva couldn’t stop the devastating earthquake that marooned thousands of people and tourists who had flown to Nepal to visit the holy shrine of Lord Shiva.



Occurring after 80 years, it has been the worst in the history of natural calamity, which has sent rocked not only Nepal and India but the entire Universe.



Particularly the foreign tourists who are stranded in Kathmandu and near the temple are in panic state, fearing when they will return to their destination. And at a time when Nepal and parts of India have been convulsed by the devastating earthquake, modern web technology is turning out to be a boon as distressed family members are able to locate their loved ones.

— K.V. Raman, Malad



I congratulate PM, Narendra Modiji for giving entire credit of relief and rescue operations of Nepal earthquake to 125 Crore Indians. We must thank our armed forces, NDRF teams, doctors and all those volunteers who are overcoming every obstacle to restore normalcy in Nepal.



Above all, we salute resilience of our sisters and brothers of Nepal, and also part of India for having courage to come over disaster.

— Mani L Panse, Pune



It's quite surprising that other neigbhouring countries like China, Pakistan and Sri Lanka have chosen to remain aloof to the tragedy. Western countries too have been complacent about the relief work and no one has shown any real concern for this ghastly tragedy.



India has once again shown that this government is quite serious about its relations with its neighbours and can walk an extra mile to help stranded Indians as well as other people. Indian army has shown exemplary courage and determination to reach out to the people stranded in Nepal – a nation that takes pride in being a Hindu country in welcoming all people irrespective of their colour and caste.

— Ashok Goswami, Mumbai



APROPOS the edit piece 'Aftershocks make situation worse' (ADC, Apr. 27). The scale of devastation is enormous considering the number of casualties which is mounting with the time. Technology has not been armed with any such tool which could predict this dangerous life threatening natural calamity till date. However, the instruments to measure the intensity, duration, the expanse of the affected area are devised but it does not help the humanity to take preventive measures to save the lives, as it does not foretell any thing. As such those who are civil engineers, are aware that Geotechnical investigations reveal the mechanism of the soil and but nothing as such about earthquake.

— Bikram Banerjea, Mumbai



Racing against time, rescuers waded through tonnes of rubble of flattened homes and buildings in Nepal to look for survivors of the earthquake that devastated Nepal in general and Kathmandu in particular. It is believed that more and more bodies will be recovered in coming weeks and the seriously injured may succumb to fatal injuries and hence the death toll may touch round about 5000. It was the worst ever devastation in eight decades.



The aftermath of earthquake continues to haunt the people in capital city and the surrounding areas. However, the intensity is coming down everyday and the situation will become normal within a couple of days. The 7.9 magnitude temblor left a trail of devastation and suffering with people spending the cold night in the open because of fears of fresh quake. Nature's fury had struck Nepal and it needs great help all over the world to bring back the lives of the people to normalcy in the days to come.

— Nickil S. Manim, Vashi
</text>