<url>
http://www.thesundaily.my/news/1399470
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
M'sian survivors recall terrifying experience
</headline>

<text>
One of the High Altitude Ride participants Mohamad Ramdan Ngatimin kissing his daughter Nursyaza Qaisara after safely returning home from Nepal. BERNAMA

104 Malaysians arrive home safely. BERNAMA

PETALING JAYA: An eight-month pregnant mother was among 104 Malaysians who arrived safely at the Royal Malaysian Air Force base, Subang, from Kathmandu, Nepal, in a RMAF C-130 aircraft early this morning.

Sheila Vandalasamy, 34, who is with the Malaysian Embassy's Immigration Division in Kathmandu, returned home with husband A. Kumaraw, 37.

"This is the first time we had such a terrifying experience (the earthquake). Prior to this, there were tremors, but they were small.

"Our house in Kathmandu suddenly shook that morning. We rushed out when it started shaking and household items fell to the floor and broke," she said, adding every second was a very fearful one, before the arrival of the rescue team, due to aftershocks and buildings shaking.

She said the experience of witnessing bodies sprawled in the ruins of buildings and shouts of people trying to save themselves or looking for loved ones, would never be forgotten.

Nazahiyah Muhd Hadzir, 30, one of the 13 participants of a High Altitude Ride who was met at the base, said during the incident she was buying essential items at a sundry shop in the town.

Suddenly the shophouse shook and she was almost thrown out of the shop when attempting to save herself.

"I saw people running for cover, and I heard people shouting earthquake. I saw the shop starting to crack and collapse. There were bodies all over the place," she said.

The Malaysians who arrived home left Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, the National Security Council will send a second courtesy flight to Nepal if there are still Malaysians stranded there.

Its secretary, Datuk Mohamed Thajudeen Abdul Wahab, said NSC is still continuing efforts to trace them.

He said that as far as he knows there are no more Malaysians in Kathmandu but outside Kathmandu it is understood there are still some Malaysians.

Speaking to reporters at the RMAF base in Subang, early today, he urged any Malaysian still in Kathmandu to immediately register with the Malaysian Embassy to return to the country. – Bernama
</text>