<url>
http://wwmt.com/news/features/top-stories/stories/Couple-from-Kalamazoo-in-Nepal-helping-after-earthquake-123986.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Couple from Kalamazoo in Nepal helping after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
KALAMAZOO, Mich. (NEWSCHANNEL 3) - Right now, around 5,000 people are confirmed dead after Saturday's massive earthquake in Nepal.



The Prime Minister there fears that number could get even higher as days pass.



Now, amid rescue efforts, a mudslide near the quake's epicenter has left 250 missing.



Across the country, thousands are living out in the open without clean water or sanitation.



And a couple from Kalamazoo is caught in the chaos. Tuesday, they spoke to Newschannel 3 about how they escaped death, and are now working to save lives.



Josh and Brooke Veenstra traveled to Nepal two weeks ago, to do medical missions, just outside of Kathmandu.



But they never expected their trip would coincide with a historic earthquake.



Rescue teams are racing to find survivors trapped in the rubble, as the death toll from Saturday's quake already tops 5,000.



Josh, a medical student; and Brooke, a nurse, have been working at a hospital just 15 miles east of Kathmandu.



Call it divine intervention: they decided to take a day trip three hours outside the city on Saturday.



"It would've been a lot worse if we had been here, the hotel we were staying in is condemned now," Josh said.



Nonetheless, the couple says they still felt the tremors.



"Everybody kinda started yelling--earthquake! Earthquake! So we ran out from underneath the building and stood kind of in an open field, far from trees," Brooke said.



But they had no clue the devastation that awaited them back in Kathmandu.



"The hospital, the scene is crazy. even three days out, there are people showing up with a bunch of broken legs, broken arms, cuts all over their faces. The operating rooms are just packed with surgeries but they can only do the surgeries that their lives are at risk because they have no room," Josh said.



They sent us these photos, and are working around the clock to treat victims.



And as aftershocks continue to rock Nepal, Brooke says they still aren't able to sleep inside any buildings. People are camping in the streets.



"They don't have electricity, they don't have homes, they don't have anywhere to even go to the bathroom," Brooke said. "I'm just worried about the future of the country. So I would say pray. pray for them."



The Veenstras say a major problem they're seeing is that the hospitals are running out of supplies.



There are lots of ways you can donate.



The Veenstras are in Dhulikhel, and funds for that city are being raised here.



The New York Times has a more complete list of major organizations helping in the country, which can be found by clicking here.
</text>