<url>
http://tvnz.co.nz/world-news/british-journalist-survives-jaw-dropping-avalanche-6304209
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
British journalist survives 'jaw-dropping' avalanche
</headline>

<text>
A former British soldier, who was at the same Mount Everest camp as a New Zealander when an avalanche struck, says it felt like the glacier was sliding off the mountain and they were sitting on its back.

Thomas Martienssen, a BBC video journalist, was on Everest covering ceremonies to mark a year since an accident that killed 16 Sherpas, when he was caught up in the avalanches triggered by the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that hit Nepal on Saturday.

Adventure Consultants Wanaka CEO Guy Cotter and a team of 30 climbers he was leading were also at camp one at the time the avalanche struck. They all survived, but five of his Nepalese staff down at base camp were among 18 people killed.

Thomas Martienssen has told his story to the BBC, saying his group had arrived at camp one and he had just put his bag inside the tent.

"And then I stood out of the tent and everything started to move. It felt like the glacier was sliding off the mountain and we were sat on its back and the whole mountain just came to life," he said.

"These big lumps of ice that are the size of houses falling off these mountains, and coming straight towards you.

"Behind us we've got a crevasse that's hundreds of metres deep. And we were just expecting to either be killed by a lump of ice or thrown into the crevasse."

Mr Martienssen said: "I've come close to being shot before, I've come close to explosions going off, but that was the closest I've come to accepting I'm gonna die."

The earthquake lasted 40 seconds and then the avalanches started, he said.

"It's this feeling of complete entrapment. You're at camp one on Mt Everest and then we learn that our home, base camp, has gone. It was just gone - absolutely obliterated. And you go over the next ridge and it's worse, and over the next ridge and it's worse.

"You're walking in a complete daze. The power of this complete natural catastrophe is just jaw-dropping."

More than 200 have been evacuated off the mountain. But Kiwi Guy Cotter is one of many climbers still stranded and his party may have to walk out, a trek that could take three days.

Meanwhile, Nepalese police said today the death toll from the quake had reached 4,989. Another 18 were killed on the slopes of Mt Everest, while 61 died in neighbouring India, and China's official Xinhua News Agency reported 25 dead in Tibet.
</text>