<url>
http://www.twincities.com/nation/ci_28008558/nepals-leader-vows-recovery-from-quake-even-suffering
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal’s leader vows recovery from quake even as suffering grows
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU, Nepal — The rescue chopper had been delayed more than two hours by weather, and when it landed, doctors were quick to pull out an elderly woman, face caked by blood, who looked at them and said, “Where have I come?”

Doctors told Ratna Kumari Shreshta that she was at a military hospital in Kathmandu, about 50 miles from her home in Sindhupalchowk. Four days after Saturday’s earthquake, she had been brought to safety, as rescuers were extending their reach to Nepal’s remote villages and finding scenes of utter devastation and increasingly distraught survivors.

Images of Sindhupalchowk, and descriptions by people who had seen it, portrayed it as destroyed: simple mud brick houses flattened, heaps of rubble covering human corpses and livestock, the survivors wounded and dazed.

“No houses left, no houses left, everything is finished,” Shreshta wailed as doctors took her to the triage center.

In Nepal on Tuesday, rain descended on the troubled country once again, prompting landslides and complicating efforts of rescuers to reach the harder-hit districts in the mountains outside Kathmandu, where whole villages had been laid waste by the 7.8-scale earthquake.

The death toll continued to mount, passing 5,000, according to Nepal’s Ministry of Home Affairs. Nearly 11,000 people have been injured, and more than 450,000 are said to be displaced from their homes.

In an address to the nation, Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said government agencies are being deployed in rescue and relief efforts. But he did not provide any concrete plans or policies for relief work and reconstruction efforts.

“The government will learn from its weaknesses as we continue to find ways to deal with this devastation,” Koirala said. “This tragedy has taught us that we need organizational management in natural disaster management.”

Teams of international rescuers and aid workers arrived by the planeful at Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, but the weather, the influx of help and the small airport’s lack of parking bays caused backups. Ten aircraft were stuck waiting on the tarmac in New Delhi at one point during the day.

USAID has sent a disaster response team of 130 humanitarian and search and rescue workers, and the U.S. has pledged $10 million in relief assistance. More than a dozen other countries have pledged assistance or sent aid, including neighbors India, China, Pakistan and Bangladesh, as well as the European Union and Israel.

Some good news: The climbers who had been stranded on Mount Everest were all rescued. Gordon Janow, the director of programs for the Seattle-based trekking company Alpine Ascents International, said that about 100 remaining climbers on the side of the mountain after Saturday’s avalanche were ferried by a small helicopter to safety. Other climbers, on the Chinese side of the mountain, are unable to leave because of bad roads.

A spokesman for the Nepalese Army, Brigadier General Jagadish Chandra Pokharel, said that the military was still in the search-and-rescue part of the mammoth post-quake operation, and was reluctant to give up hope of finding survivors. He noted that a Turkish search and rescue team had pulled a man, bloody and covered in dust, out from under a pile of rubble on Monday.

“We have not decided the first phase is over, in the hope we may still find somebody alive somewhere,” Pokharel said.

The Americans, too, shared those feelings.

“There’s still potential to save lives,” said Bill Berger, the USAID Disaster Assistance Response Team leader in Nepal. “Everybody’s moving with all deliberate speed.”

Samuel Marie-Fanon, the regional rapid response coordinator for the European Commission’s Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Department, said that, according to government figures, 70 percent of the deaths so far have come in these rural areas.

“The situation is much more worrying in those districts,” Fanon said. “The big rains have started, and all this week people are sleeping in the open. There is an obvious need for shelter and tents or tarpaulins. The priorities are water, food and of course medical assistance.”
</text>