<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-29/riot-police-intervene-as-anger-erupts-nepal-quake-survivors/6431542
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Riot police battle to contain crowds desperate to leave ruined city
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Riot police battle to contain crowds desperate to leave ruined city

Updated

Nepalese riot police have struggled to hold back thousands of residents trying to leave the earthquake-hit capital Kathmandu as anger mounted at the lack of buses being provided by the authorities.

Thousands of people began gathering from before dawn outside the main bus station after the government promised to lay on special services.

But when the buses failed to materialise, scuffles broke out between the crowds and riot police who were sent in to try to contain the situation near parliament.

Kishor Kavre, a 25-year-old student who was hoping to leave the city, said people had been "waiting since dawn".

"They told us that there would be 250 buses coming but we haven't seen any of them," he said.

"We're in a hurry to get home to see our families but we've no idea when they're coming now. I think the government is struggling."

There was also desperation in devastated rural areas where people have been pleading to be airlifted out when the occasional helicopter has reached their villages with relief supplies.

The number of people killed in Nepal by Saturday's magnitude-7.9 earthquake has risen to 5,006, a home ministry official said.

Nepal's prime minister Sushil Koirala said the death toll could reach 10,000, as information on damage from far-flung villages and towns was yet to come in.

That would surpass the 8,500 who died in a 1934 earthquake, the last disaster on this scale to hit the Himalayan nation.

"The government is doing all it can for rescue and relief on a war footing," Mr Koirala said.

"It is a challenge and a very difficult hour for Nepal."

Around 8,000 people had been injured while the United Nations estimated that eight million people had been affected.

Although aftershocks have begun to subside, hundreds of thousands of people were still sleeping outside in the streets as their homes had either been wrecked or else feared to be on the verge of collapse.

Survivor rescued after 82 hours

UN humanitarian chief Valerie Amos is due to travel to Kathmandu on Thursday for a first-hand look at relief efforts in one of Asia's poorest nations.

She will spend three days in Nepal to "show solidarity with the Nepalese people, raise the visibility of the crisis and assess the response operations", UN spokesman Farhan Haq said.

Hundreds of people remain unaccounted for, while many are feared trapped in collapsed houses in Kathmandu, the spokesman said.

One man was plucked from the rubble of his Kathmandu home late on Tuesday after he was trapped under masonry for around 82 hours.

Barely conscious and covered in dust, 27-year-old Rishi Khanal was taken to hospital in an ambulance after being fitted with a neck brace and having a drip attached to his right arm.

But rescuers underlined the daunting scale of the task.

"It's a very difficult disaster zone, very compact and on top of that it's been raining," Pascal Montant, part of the French rescue team, said after a fruitless search of wreckage.

"When I took my dog off the leash it didn't give out any signal, it didn't bark, which means that possibly there's no one inside."

In Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, terrified residents ran with outstretched arms towards an Indian army helicopter to plead for food and water.

"We haven't had any food here since the earthquake. Everything has changed, we don't have anything left here," Sita Gurung said, gesturing towards what was left of her home in the village of Lapu.

Nepalese intensifies rescue effort

The Nepalese army said that an improvement in the weather should help efforts to reach rural areas.

"We are moving forward with intensive rescue operations," army spokesman Jagdish Pokharel said.

"We are stretching our resources to reach out to as many areas as possible.

"The weather ... has improved so we hope to help more victims. Helicopters have been deployed to bring the injured to hospital."

An army helicopter reached the scene of an avalanche in the Ghoratabela district on Tuesday afternoon in a region that is popular with foreign trekkers.

The scale of casualties was unknown but 18 survivors had been rescued and there were believed to be 200 to 250 people in the area, senior local official Gautam Rimal said.

Nepal's only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu has been operating around-the-clock to accommodate the arrival of military planes carrying aid.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

Two Australian C-17 aircraft have left Amberley airbase in Queensland for the stricken country, carrying 15,000 kilograms of aid including tarpaulins, woollen blankets, and 80,000 water purification tablets.

The quake is a serious blow to the economy of the impoverished nation, already reeling from a decade-long civil war that ended in 2006, with one estimate putting the cost of reconstruction at $5 billion.

AFP/Reuters

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, relief-and-aid-organisations, nepal, asia

First posted
</text>