<url>
http://news.webindia123.com/news/Articles/India/20150425/2579495.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Killer Earthquake rattles Nepal & India; 800 dead in Nepal & 34 in India
</headline>

<text>
More than 800 people were killed in Nepal and 34 in various parts of India as a powerful earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale rocked the two South Asian countries, resulting in a massive loss of life and property. Most of the fatalities have been reported from the Kathmandu valley though there is little information pouring in from outlying areas of the region. Reports quoting Nepal police say that at least 876 people have died so far.The rescue operations suffered soon after the sunset as power supply in major areas were disrupted due to snapped lines and shutting down of transformers. Reports said at least 18 bodies have been recovered from the world highest peak everest base camps as a strong avalanche was triggered due to the massive earthquake. Rescue operations are underway but reports said some base camps were buried under snow in the Avalanche ,trapping mountaineers. Reports say the Indian Mountaineers in base camp are safe.In April month a large number mountaineers scale heights on everest . Officials details are yet to be received. At least 34 people were killed at different places that shook most of the parts of Northern India today.As of now as many as 23 deaths are reported in quake related incidents in Bihar.while 8 persons died in Uttar Pradesh and three in West Bengal, Home Secretary L C Goyal said. The Centre is in constant touch with affected states", Mr Goyal said. Centre has put the government agencies in full preparedness for providing all needed assistance in the rescue and relief operations in the affected regions.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation arising in India and Nepal. He assured full help in rescue operations. India has rushed NDRF teams to Nepal and affected parts of India.As after shocks continued to jolt both India and Nepal upto late this evening, relief and rescue operations teams had been put on highest alert. Helicopters continued to hover atop various worst affected areas in Nepal.People are in panic in various parts of Bihar due to recurring aftershocks while victims were battling to cope with the devastation.Power lines had been shut down to avert any major tragedy . In Sikkim, the earthquake was felt and reports reaching here said it triggered landslides and rains were lashing areas. Exact details could not be collected. The intensity was severest in Nepal where the epicenter was reported while its intensity was a bit low in India but areas of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, bordering Nepal, were also hit badly.With the tremblor leaving a trail of death and destruction in the Himalayan nation, local TV channels were showing heaps of bodies even as the authorities launched a massive rescue and relief operation. Chaotic scenes were witnessed outside hospitals where wailing relatives were seen searching their kith and kin.Every minute the toll is rising as rescuers with bare hands were trying to rescue trapped persons. No official figure of the death toll is available so far, but channels and various sources are compiling figures and apprehend that casualty figure might cross 1,000. Many of the injured reported to hospitals with broken limbs and bleeding wounds.Reports received from Kathmandu said casualty figures may be many times higher as several buildings had flattened with people feared buried under the debris. Hospitals were flooded with injured. Access to many lanes and by-lanes in the capital city of Kathmandu has been blocked due to huge mound of debris.Relief and rescue operations have been launched to save people trapped in collapsed buildings and historical monuments and temples. Doctors have pitched camps on streets of Kathmandu to give first aid to the injured.In Nepals Lamjung, the epicentre of the quake, many buildings have been flattened. There are reports of cracks developing at the Kathmandu airport. Flights have been diverted to India.Eyewitnesses said Dharahara Tower/Bhimsen Tower, a 19th century nine-storey tall tower in Kathmandu, has collapsed. About 400 people are believed to be trapped.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev, who is currently in Kathmandu, said he heard a major "explosion" like sound soon after the quake and at least five aftershocks have been felt .Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an emergency meeting to review the situation arising from the quake in India and how New Delhi could assist Nepal in its hour of crisis. He also spoke to Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who is in transit in Bangkok on his way to Kathmandu. MORE UNI TEAM AT-NB CH 1855 -- (UNI) -- C-1-1-DL0177-96027.Xml
</text>