<url>
http://www.business-standard.com/article/news-ani/nepal-quake-11-victims-84-dead-bodies-recovered-so-far-says-ndrf-dg-115042900147_1.html
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: 11 victims, 84 dead bodies recovered so far, says NDRF DG
</headline>

<text>
As India intensifies rescue and relief effort in quake ravaged Nepal, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Director General O.P. Singh on Wednesday said that over 11 victims and 84 dead bodies have been recovered so far.

"The primary focus is on search and rescue. We have rescued over 11 alive victims and 84 dead bodies. Yesterday, we rescued a woman who was buried under debris for almost 36 hours. We want to cover maximum area and rescue as many as we can. We can also go out of Kathmandu if Nepal authorities want us to," said Singh.

Another NDRF official, Arun Kumar, had earlier yesterday said that the incessant rain in Nepal was hampering the rescue operations. He, however, added that the task force was prepared to tackle any situation.

"The weather is sunny now, but sometimes it is raining heavily. Several bodies have not been recovered. If the temperature rises, the bodies will start rotting. It will create several problems. It is difficult to say, but if it continues to rain then it will be problematic. If the temperature rises then the bodies will rot and we will be left with limited options. But we are prepared to deal with any situation," said Kumar.

Meanwhile, the Indian nationals rescued from Nepal lauded the efforts of New Delhi and Kathmandu.

"The Government in Nepal is doing the best it can. The Government of India has done a lot too," said an Indian national rescued from Nepal.

The Indian Army has set up a makeshift hospital in Kathmandu to treat the victims after a devastating earthquake destroyed buildings and roads, killed more than 5,000 people and injured thousands.

Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala had earlier on Tuesday declared three days of national mourning for the earthquake victims.

India is leaving no stone unturned to assist Nepal, which is presently reeling under the crisis.

Defence Secretary R K Mathur had yesterday said the Indian rescuers from the NDRF and Air Force planes have begun reaching areas beyond the Kathmandu Valley near Pokhara.

He said that a total of 16 NDRF teams are now present in the Himalayan nation and were working in close coordination with Nepalese authorities.

Earlier on Sunday, fresh tremors were felt across India's northern belt after another earthquake of 6.7 magnitude hit the east of Kathmandu.

A massive earthquake of 7.9 magnitude had struck Nepal, earlier on Saturday, resulting in thousands of deaths.

The calamity, one of the worst in over 80 years, was followed by 55

aftershocks.
</text>