<url>
http://triblive.com/usworld/world/8265123-74/rescue-nepal-rescuers
</url>

<date>
20150429
</date>

<headline>
Search-and-rescue spreads to Nepal's villages
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU, Nepal — The rescue chopper had been delayed more than two hours by weather, and when it landed, doctors were quick to pull out an elderly woman, face caked with blood, who looked at them and said, “Where have I come?”

Doctors told Ratna Kumari Shreshta that she was at a military hospital in Kathmandu, about 50 miles from her home in Sindhupalchowk. Four days after Saturday's earthquake, she had been brought to safety, as rescuers were extending their reach to Nepal's remote villages and finding scenes of utter devastation and increasingly distraught survivors.

Images of Sindhupalchowk, and descriptions by people who had seen it, portrayed it as thoroughly destroyed, its simple mud brick houses flattened, heaps of rubble covering human corpses and livestock, and dazed wounded.

“No houses left, no houses left, everything is finished,” Shreshta wailed as doctors took her to the triage center.

In Nepal on Tuesday, rain descended on the troubled country once again, prompting landslides and complicating efforts of rescuers to reach the harder-hit districts in the mountains outside Kathmandu, where whole villages had been laid waste by the 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

The death toll continued to mount, more than 5,000 and counting, according to Nepal's Ministry of Home Affairs. Nearly 11,000 have been injured, and more than 450,000 people are said to be displaced from their homes.

In an address to the nation, Prime Minister Sushil Koirala said government agencies are being deployed in rescue and relief efforts. But he did not provide any concrete plans or policies for relief work and reconstruction efforts.

Teams of international rescuers and aid workers arrived by the planeful at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, but the weather, the influx of help and the small airport's lack of parking bays caused backups. Ten aircraft were stuck waiting on the tarmac in New Delhi at one point during the day.

USAID has sent a disaster response team of 130 humanitarian and search and rescue workers, and the United States has pledged $10 million in relief assistance.

Some good news: The climbers who had been stranded on Mt. Everest were all rescued. Gordon Janow, the director of programs for the Seattle-based trekking company Alpine Ascents International, said that about 100 remaining climbers on the side of the mountain after Saturday's avalanche were ferried by a small helicopter to safety. Other climbers, on the Chinese side of the mountain, are unable to leave because of bad roads.

Prem Kima, a Nepali who lives in New Delhi, said his family survived the earthquake but their house not far from the quake's epicenter in Lamjung did not.

“There is rubble everywhere. Everyone is sleeping in the cattle sheds. That's how people survive in my village,” he said. “Everyone is trying to help each other.”
</text>