<url>
http://www.news.com.au/entertainment/tv/sunday-night-defends-hugh-sheridans-mission-to-rescue-brother-in-nepal/story-e6frfmyi-1227333135964
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
Sunday Night defends Hugh Sheridan rescue missing brother in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
CHANNEL Seven’s Sunday Night has defended their decision to coordinate and film Hugh Sheridan’s mission to Nepal to rescue his missing brother.

Both the program and Sheridan were slammed as opportunistic last week when it was revealed they were filming a story on Nepal’s earthquake disaster — with the actor’s search for his now located brother the focus.

Sunday Night’s executive producer Steve Taylor released a statement over the weekend defending the story — and called the criticism “offensive” and “shameful”.

“A media crew going to a trouble spot and inquiring about transport is not a story. Other media covering the story have done the same,” the statement reads.

“We did not hire a helicopter. We certainly did not seek to put ourselves ahead of any local humanitarian effort.

“The allegation that we would put ourselves ahead of the relief effort is utterly wrong, deeply offensive and a shameful claim.

“When Sunday Night began the journey with Hugh Sheridan, his brother had been missing for days and no-one knew if he was alive or dead.”

Sheridan took to Instagram today to post a picture of himself and his younger brother Zachery sleeping on an airport floor in Kathmandu.

In the caption, he explained his reasons for being in the disaster zone.

“Last week Zachy declined help from myself or anyone else saying ‘please do not come for me, I am fine, there is so much pain everywhere else,’” he wrote.

“While waiting on his return, I’ve been working with our brother Tom and locals in Kathmandu clearing wreckage. I feel privileged to be here helping, if it wasn’t for Zach I wouldn’t have booked my ticket (silver lining).”

He thanked Channel Seven for “sending a crew out to tag along incase my brother was in danger”.

“Can’t imagine anyone in our position would pass on the opportunity for additional aid to a loved one in a disaster zone,” he wrote.

“Our family hope sharing our story helps others understand what people with missing loved ones are still facing, and the desperate need for aid here, prompting others to donate to this beautiful country.”

Taylor also defended the decision to send Channel Seven personality Doctor Andrew Rochford.

“We sent Dr Andrew Rochford so he could bring his emergency medical skills and expertise to the analysis of the injuries and the medical relief effort and to help where he could,” he said.

“Yesterday he was asked by local authorities to a remote quake-damaged community to do just that. Until his visit today the village has so far missed out on any medical attention.”

Sunday Night will air at 8.30pm AEST Sunday night.
</text>