<url>
http://focustaiwan.tw/news/afav/201504280026.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
Taiwanese aid arriving in quake-devastated Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
Taipei, April 28 (CNA) A medical team organized by the Buddhist Compassion Relief Tzu Chi Foundation arrived in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu Tuesday in the wake of a magnitude-7.8 tremor that ravaged the South Asian Country April 25, killing more than 5,000 people.



In a press release issued by its headquarters in Hualien, the foundation said that the 15-member team, led by Taichung Tzu Chi Hospital superintendent Chien Shou-hsin (簡守信), has brought with them 1,000 kg of medicines, enough to treat well over 1,000 patients.



As the plane carrying the team touched down at the Kathmandu airport, two other planes carrying rescue teams from the United States, Singapore, Israel and Pakistan also arrived, forming long lines in the lobby of the terminal waiting to collect their rescue gear and luggage.



At the airport, the Tzu Chi team contacted the coordinators of the local health authorities and was expected to offer surgery, physician and emergency services the following day in the disaster area.



Many of the team members are veteran international disaster rescuers, and they will assess what aid is most needed in Nepal and communicate with the foundation in Taiwan while providing further assistance, said the foundation.



Another Taiwan rescue team organized jointly by the Republic of China Red Cross Society, Buddha's Light International Association, International Headquarters Search and Rescue and Kaohsiung Chang Gung Hospital was expected to arrive in Kathmandu later Tuesday.



Meanwhile in Taiwan, fund-raising campaigns for the earthquake victims in Nepal are taking place.



The Red Cross Society has set a goal of raising NT$30 million (US$980,820) for Nepal, but had to close its Facebook account Tuesday after it was overwhelmed by criticism for what critics described as its non-transparent operation.



An official of the society said they closed the Facebook account because all its staff workers are busy raising funds for Nepal and have no time to dispute "groundless criticism."



Another Taiwan charity, the Taiwan Root Medical Peace Corps, said Tuesday that it has organized a 62-member medical team that will not be able to depart for Kathmandu until May 2 because of the difficulty getting flight tickets to that country. The team will remain there until May 10.



In a related development Tuesday, Eric Chu (朱立倫), chairman of the ruling Kuomintang and mayor of New Taipei, donated one day of his salary to the Nepal relief effort, and urged his city government subordinates to follow suit.



Also that day, the Fubon Financial Holding Company said it will donate NT$10 million to the relief effort.



(By Su Lung-chi, Sunrise Huang, Chen Ching-fang, Tien Yu-bin and Maubo Chang)

ENDITEM/J
</text>