<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11580228/The-British-teenager-who-narrowly-escaped-death-in-Nepal-earthquake-terror.html
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
The British teenager who narrowly escaped death in Nepal earthquake terror
</headline>

<text>
She narrowly escaped death herself, witnessing buildings collapse like cards, bodies piled high on lorries and families losing all their possessions in the few, terrifying minutes of the devastating Nepalese earthquake .

But now, with much of the Himalayan country in ruins, its capital city destroyed and thousands of its people dead, 18-year-old Abi Thornton feels a stab of regret at having managed to return safely to Britain.

"I was so happy to see my family again, after everything we went through," said the teenager, who was in Nepal working as a volunteer on community projects when the earthquake struck at 11.45 last Saturday .

"But in a way it feels really terrible to be back, because we went out there to try and help people, but in the end we left the country in a worse state than when we arrived."

A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur (Getty Images)

Abi, who was flown back to Stansted Airport along with 100 other Britons on Thursday, had travelled out with Voluntary Services Overseas (VSO) in February, to work in the Nepalese village of Jharawashi.

But on the day the 7.8 magnitude quake hit, she was on a day trip to Kathmandu with her fellow volunteers and some of their Nepalese counterparts from the local charity Ricord.

Abi and a friend were sitting on the outside steps of a building, enjoying the passing hustle and bustle of the city, when the terror began.

"Everything was normal. Then we heard what sounded like drilling, but it carried on and got louder until we both realised something was really wrong," she said.

Abi Thornton with her parents Steve and Kate at their home in Ascot (Julian Simmonds)

"Then the ground and the building and the staircase we were sitting on began to shake and we just held on to each other tightly. It was absolutely terrifying and we had no idea what to do."

The teenager added: "It must have only last a few minutes but it felt like it was going on forever and I had no idea how long it would last."

Sitting there, as the ground shook beneath their feet, Abi had a strange sensation of regret that, after all her hard work volunteering in the village, she would not be able to complete her projects.

Then she was struck by the awful realisation that she may never again see her father Steve, mother Kate and younger brother Matt, 17. "I thought 'I'm never going to get home. I'm going to die here'," she said.

In fact Abi and her friends were among the lucky ones.

Although the building where they happened to be shook and wobbled it did not collapse, unlike many others nearby. All around them was devastation, and as the tremors continued homes, shops and offices tumbled to the grounds like cards.

When the first tremors stopped Abi and the others managed to escape to the nearby palace of the Nepalese vice-president, where guards were ushering survivors into the large grounds, away from any buildings.

As they sat there the aftershocks continued - and would not let let up for days to come - leaving Abi and her fellow survivors bewildered and fearful.

"We were so scared. We didn't know when it would end. Everyone was trying to phone their families but all the communications had been cut," said Abi.

When, a few hours later, people began to get through to their loved ones, Abi hurried to call her parents in Ascot, Berkshire.

She said: "Fortunately they hadn't heard about the earthquake yet, so I tried to underplay it a bit - saying I was sitting in a field because there'd been a bit of an earthquake."

Mr Thornton, 46, a commercial photographer, said: "We were sitting, having a cup of tea when Abi rang. It's bad enough when your daughter leaves home and goes to Nepal - even when its a well organised voluntary project like hers - but when this happens you realise there are things on this planet you just can't protect them against and there is nothing you can do about it.

Nepalese earthquake victims walk among debris of collapsed buildings (David Ramos/Getty Images)

"Then seeing the devastation on the news over the following days, with Abi out there and not with us, was awful."

Abi and her VSO friends spent the night following the earthquake in marquees that had been, fortuitously, erected in the palace grounds for an earlier event.

The following evening they undertook a short, but traumatic journey on foot to the British Embassy. What she witnessed along the way will stay with her forever.

"It was so strange. I'm still finding it really hard to process. I don't like to think about what I saw too much," she said.

"People were walking in the middle of the road in case there were further shocks and everywhere there were collapsed building with bits of furniture sticking out of them. Everyone's possessions had been buried in the rubble.

"As we walked trucks and ambulances with dead bodies that had been pulled out of the ruined building drove past us."

Amid the horror there were some rare moments of black humour.

Arriving at the British Embassy, Abi and her group were first asked to queue, then given a cup of tea and some porridge, before staff began to apologise for the rather rudimentary conditions.

"It was then I realised we were back on British soil," she said.

People watch as rescuers search for bodies in the rubble of a building which collapsed in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu (Reuter)

From the embassy the party were taken to the barracks of the Gurkha regiment, a building that was built to withstand earthquakes and was equipped with food supplies, electricity and communication facilities.

But before going they wanted to make sure the Nepalese they had met were all safe. A phone call to the village established that although there had been dozens of casualties, Abi's host family, and the Nepalese volunteer with whom she had worked - 23-year-old Bivechana Pandey - were all safe and well.

Over the next few days the aftershocks continued, leading terrified survivors - including Abi - to again flee buildings for open ground.

"We just didn't know when it was going to stop and whether it would get worse," she said. "You could never relax or rest properly."

Finally, after being repeatedly told to prepare to leave, only to be stood down again moments later, Abi and her group were found seats on a flight home. It was not an easy decision to abandon Nepal.

"We didn't really know whether to leave, or stay and help," said Abi. "But in the end we decided as a group that there was little a bunch of unskilled teenagers could really do now. What is needed is proper relief work and if we had stayed we would have been taking the food and resources needed by the rescue teams."

Driving home after an emotional reunion with her family at Stansted, Abi, who is planning to go to York University next year to study directing and performance, was stuck by the sheer normality of her surroundings.

"We stopped at a service station and the news was on showing the election campaign rather than the earthquake," she said. "People around me were talking about other things.

"When you're here you can forget what happened in Nepal. Over there it was impossible to forget about what you'd just seen."

Since arriving in the country in February she had spent nearly 10 weeks in Jharawashi, working on agricultural and education projects with the locals.

During that period, in which she lived with a family of eight, Abi helped to run English classes, fruit and vegetable growing workshops and even a seminar on CV writing.

Sitting amid the safe surroundings of her family home - its peaceful domesticity in stark contrast to the traumatic events of the past week - she added: "The Nepalese people we met during our time there were so kind and generous.

"None of them deserved for this to happen to them. We felt bad leaving because it looked as if we were abandoning them, even though there was little we could realistically do.

"Now the people I was with out there are desperate for help - food, clothes, anything people can give, because it's going to take years for them to get back on their feet."

Donations can be made to the Disasters Emergency Committee Nepalese Earthquake Appeal or via VSO.
</text>