<url>
http://www.themalaymailonline.com/world/article/us-military-planes-set-to-begin-nepal-quake-relief
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
US military planes set to begin Nepal quake relief
</headline>

<text>
US military planes set to begin Nepal quake relief

Earthquake victims carry their belongings as they make their way through a collapsed house at a village in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters picKATHMANDU, May 4 ― US transport aircraft were to begin shuttling rescue teams and supplies today to remote areas of Nepal that are desperately awaiting aid, nine days after a devastating earthquake that killed more than 7,300 people.

The arrival late yesterday in Kathmandu of the United States Air Force C-17 aircraft and four tilt-rotor Ospreys gave another much-needed shot in the arm to the aid effort after a 101-year-old man was pulled alive from his ruined home.

An American general said pilots would begin flying sorties out of the capital Kathmandu to remote areas today morning.

“They’re going to make an immediate difference,” US Brigadier General Paul Kennedy told reporters late yesterday.

“We’ve got search and rescue teams waiting to go out to the remote areas, we’ve got relief supplies, especially shelters.

“Most people don’t understand that a shelter is the most pressing need, so we’re going to take these things out starting tomorrow (Monday) morning,” Kennedy added.

“The hope is that the sorties start today,” an unnamed US embassy official confirmed to AFP today.

In the Gallery

People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sherpas, climbers, porters and rescue teams help carry a person injured by an avalanche that flattened part of Everest Base Camp, April 26, 2015. — AFP pic



People gather near a collapsed house after a major earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after a major earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A collapsed building is pictured after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. ― Reuters pic



People search for family members trapped inside collapsed houses a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy smiles as he is rescued from a collapsed house after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. — Reuters pic



People cremate the bodies of the victims of an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man cries as he walks on the street while passing through a damaged statue of Lord Buddha a day after an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is carried by rescue members to be airlifted by rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



People gather near the cracks on the road caused by an earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp on April 26, 2015, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp. — AFP pic



A man carrying his belongings searches for a safe place to take shelter after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Sniffer dog handler Birgit Ostendorf of Germany’s NGO organisation International Search and Rescue (ISAR- Germany) prepares her dog ‘Cooper’ to board their flight to Nepal from Frankfurt airport, April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A family carry their belongings as they rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People rush for safety during a strong aftershock after an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



People sit on the rubble of a temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, a day after the 7.9 magnitude earthquake killed more than 2,400 people and devastated Kathmandu valley, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Indians fight during a queue for an aircraft back to their country outside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Tourists gather inside Nepal’s Tribhuvan International Airport a day after a 7.9 magnitude earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



Family members eat their dinner in front of a makeshift shelter on open ground to keep safe after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A man fills water from a water tank near a collapsed temple in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A mother and her child sit inside a makeshift shelter in an open ground to keep safe after the earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 26, 2015. — Reuters pic



A girl holds her mother as they stand outside a hospital during a strong aftershock after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A tourist makes his way through the debris of a temple in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A woman carries her belongings as she walks over collapsed house after earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People displaced after Saturday’s earthquake stand in a queue to get food from a local organisation at an open ground in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



A rescue helicopter is shown at the Mount Everest south base camp in Nepal a day after a huge earthquake-caused avalanche killed at least 17 people, in this photo taken on April 26, 2015.— Reuters pic



Workers of the German Red Cross (DRK) prepare a load of humanitarian aid for victims of the earthquake in Nepal, in front of an aircraft at Schoenefeld airport outside Berlin April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Victims of Saturday’s earthquake rest inside an Indian Air Force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



People wait outside the departure terminal at the airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 27, 2015, following the April 25 earthquake. — Reuters pic



Rescue team member from Nepal, Turkey and china works during the rescue operation to rescue live victims trapped inside the collapsed hotel after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepalese army personnel clear the debris of a collapsed house as they carry out rescue operations following Saturday’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal April 27, 2015. — Reuters pic



Villagers walk past a damaged house where three were killed by the earthquake at Jharibar Village, in Gorkha, Nepal April 28, 2015. — Reuters pic



A boy wades through the water next to the burning pyres of people, who died in the earthquake, during the cremation along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal, April 29, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents wait to fill water from hand pump next to damaged houses in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Residents and volunteers clear debris from a temple following the earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 2, 2015. — Reuters pic



Nepal military personnel clear the rubble which were destroyed after last week’s earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic



Earthquake victims carry their belongings as they make their way through a collapsed house at a village in Sindhupalchowk, Nepal, May 4, 2015. ― Reuters pic

While the latest official death toll for Nepal stood at 7,250, with some 14,000 injured, authorities warned the final tally would be much higher. More than 100 people were also killed in neighbouring India and China.

A Nepalese official said the US aircraft would also airlift victims out of remote areas which experienced some of the worst devastation of the 7.8-magnitude quake on April 25.

“They are also assisting any casualties in mostly the eastern side of Nepal... places worst hit like Sindhupalchowk, Gorkha area,” Suraya Prasad Silwal, a spokesman for Nepal’s home ministry, told AFP.

Death toll warning

Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat said the death toll was likely to jump once relief teams reached mountain villages flattened in the worst quake to hit the nation in more than 80 years.

“There are still villages where we know that all houses have been destroyed, but have not yet been able to reach,” Mahat said.

“The aftershocks have not receded and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher,” the minister said, as he appealed for hundreds of millions of dollars in foreign donations to help rebuild the country.

Around two dozen countries have been helping in the relief effort. And while the international rescue teams have been welcomed by the Nepalese authorities, they have also created a logjam at the country’s only international airport on the outskirts of Kathmandu.

Authorities said yesterday that the Tribhuvan International Airport has been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks.

But although airport managers issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes would not be allowed to land, it did not prevent the arrival of the giant US planes.

While no survivors have been found alive in the ruins of Kathmandu since Thursday, rescuers did pull a 101-year-old man alive from his ruined home in a rural district on Saturday, a week on from the disaster.

Funchu Tamang was rescued with only minor injuries to his ankle and hand in Nuwakot district, some 80 kilometres northwest of Kathmandu.

“He was brought to the district hospital in a helicopter. His condition is stable,” police officer Arun Kumar Singh told AFP.

Police also pulled three women survivors from under rubble yesterday in Sindhupalchowk, one of the worst-hit districts, although it was not immediately clear how long they had been trapped.

Police have found more than 50 bodies, including those of six foreigners, in Nepal’s popular Langtang trekking region following last weekend’s devastating earthquake, a senior local official said yesterday.

Another 100 foreign tourists are still feared to be missing in the Langtang area north of Kathmandu.

Climbing firms yesterday called off their Everest spring expeditions, after the quake-triggered avalanche killed 18 on the world’s highest peak.

“With ongoing aftershocks and tremors we can’t continue expeditions,” said two-time Everest summiteer Dawa Steven Sherpa of Kathmandu-based Asian Trekkers. ― AFP
</text>