<url>
http://www.laht.com/article.asp?ArticleId=2385977&CategoryId=12395
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
Rural Survivors of Nepal Quake Issue Urgent Call for Tents, Tarpaulins
</headline>

<text>
HOME | World (Click here for more)

Rural Survivors of Nepal Quake Issue Urgent Call for Tents, Tarpaulins



KATHMANDU – Rural survivors of Nepal’s devastating magnitude-7.8 earthquake say they are in urgent need of temporary shelter after the temblor destroyed or seriously damaged their homes.



Representatives of the Himalayan nation’s most remote areas, using a Web site the Nepalese government launched on Friday, described the situation facing local residents and listed their main necessities, two of which – tents and tarpaulins – are mentioned repeatedly.



“We need around 5,000 tents. Six thousand families lost their homes and still have not received aid. We built temporary structures to shelter ourselves with what we could, but we need tents,” a spokesman for the non-governmental organization Teach for Nepal told Efe Saturday.



Members of that NGO are seeking aid for the inhabitants of the district of Sindhupalchowk, north of Kathmandu, although they know it will be difficult to receive the assistance because “everyone is asking for tents,” the spokesman said.



Besides the members of Teach for Nepal, 150 other representatives of Nepal’s remote areas also wrote their demands on the government’s newly launched Web site.



“What we need most urgently are tarpaulins. Around 150,000 people have lost their homes in the district” of Kavre, located east of Kathmandu, Rajeev Goyal, an American of Indian descent who works for an environmental NGO in that district, told Efe.



The spokesman for Nepal’s Interior Ministry, Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, told Efe he estimates that the Himalayan country needs 400,000 tents to cover the needs of earthquake victims.



For her part, the United Nations’ under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator, Valerie Amos, said Friday in Kathmandu that temporary shelter is the most pressing need for victims of the April 25 quake.



On Saturday, Nepal’s Interior Ministry put the official death toll at slightly more than 6,600 and said roughly 14,000 people were injured, although those numbers are expected to climb further once authorities are able to access more remote areas.



The magnitude-7.8 quake, whose epicenter was located 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, was the most powerful to strike Nepal in 80 years and the deadliest in the region since the 2005 Kashmir earthquake that left more than 84,000 dead.



KATHMANDU – Rural survivors of Nepal’s devastating magnitude-7.8 earthquake say they are in urgent need of temporary shelter after the temblor destroyed or seriously damaged their homes.Representatives of the Himalayan nation’s most remote areas, using a Web site the Nepalese government launched on Friday, described the situation facing local residents and listed their main necessities, two of which – tents and tarpaulins – are mentioned repeatedly.“We need around 5,000 tents. Six thousand families lost their homes and still have not received aid. We built temporary structures to shelter ourselves with what we could, but we need tents,” a spokesman for the non-governmental organization Teach for Nepal told Efe Saturday.Members of that NGO are seeking aid for the inhabitants of the district of Sindhupalchowk, north of Kathmandu, although they know it will be difficult to receive the assistance because “everyone is asking for tents,” the spokesman said.Besides the members of Teach for Nepal, 150 other representatives of Nepal’s remote areas also wrote their demands on the government’s newly launched Web site.“What we need most urgently are tarpaulins. Around 150,000 people have lost their homes in the district” of Kavre, located east of Kathmandu, Rajeev Goyal, an American of Indian descent who works for an environmental NGO in that district, told Efe.The spokesman for Nepal’s Interior Ministry, Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, told Efe he estimates that the Himalayan country needs 400,000 tents to cover the needs of earthquake victims.For her part, the United Nations’ under-secretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief coordinator, Valerie Amos, said Friday in Kathmandu that temporary shelter is the most pressing need for victims of the April 25 quake.On Saturday, Nepal’s Interior Ministry put the official death toll at slightly more than 6,600 and said roughly 14,000 people were injured, although those numbers are expected to climb further once authorities are able to access more remote areas.The magnitude-7.8 quake, whose epicenter was located 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, was the most powerful to strike Nepal in 80 years and the deadliest in the region since the 2005 Kashmir earthquake that left more than 84,000 dead. Enter your email address to subscribe to free headlines (and great cartoons so every email has a happy ending!) from the Latin American Herald Tribune:


</text>