<url>
http://www.newsnation.in/article/77461-nepal-quake-toll-crosses-7000-customs-checks-hold-relief-victims.html
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake toll crosses 7,000; customs checks hold up relief for victims
</headline>

<text>
New Delhi :

Fresh tremors rocked parts of Nepal today, triggering landslides as the death toll in last Saturday’s devastating earthquake crossed 7,000, including 19 Indians, and protests mounted over relief not reaching several affected areas.

A 5.1-magnitude aftershock shook Barpak village in Gorkha district near the epicentre of the powerful 7.9-magnitude temblor that had caused widespread destruction. A woman was injured due to the tremor that was preceded by a 4.5-magnitude aftershock, triggering panic among the people.

The second aftershock also led to landslides, adding to the woes of the quake-hit people, many of whom have been forced to stay in the open.

A major landslide occurred at Dolalghat between Sindupalchowk and Kawre district here. “No injuries have been reported so far,” said a police official.

The death toll in Nepal’s worst quake in 80 years shot up to 7,040 with another 14,100 people injured, according to Nepal’s Home Ministry.

The figure is expected to go up further, with bodies still being pulled out from under mounds of debris in several areas.

“19 Indians have been killed in the Nepal quake,” Abhay Kumar, Spokesperson for the Indian Embassy here, told PTI.

However, Nepal police said that 38 Indians were among the 54 foreigners who were killed in the tragedy.

“19 Indians, including two women, are missing,” senior SSP Dhiru Basnyat said.

Nepalese media said 16 bodies have been recovered along the Tatopani stretch of the Araniko Highway. Some foreigners are also believed to be buried in the landslides.

The Home Ministry here feels that it is unlikely for any more survivors to be found in the April 25 quake.

Angry people took to the streets alleging that relief material was finding its way to the black market and prices of essential items had also been steeply hiked.

Many areas of the Kathmandu Valley are still deprived of necessary food items, which compelled people to resort to sloganeering against the authorities.

“A food item which is priced Rs 20 is now available for Rs 50. There is no transparency in the distribution of food and relief material,” said Nirmal Bishi, one of the protesters.

“They have just provided us with one bottle of water,” said Phulmaya Lagun, who has a family of 10 and homeless.

Many parts still have not got tarpaulin sheets. “Only the influential gets the relief material, but what about others,” claimed Dawa Sherpa, who works as a daily wage worker and has been jobless after the quake.

The UN’s humanitarian chief said today she was “extremely concerned” that Nepal’s customs authorities were slowing the delivery of quake aid, and had urged the prime minister to fix the problem.

There have been numerous reports of foreign aid getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small international airport or even turned back at the border with India by customs officials.

“I was extremely concerned to hear reports that customs was taking such a long time. I was able to raise this with the prime minister this morning,” Amos told AFP at the end of a visit to Nepal after a 7.8-magnitude quake that has killed thousands and left many more homeless.

Amos said she had reminded Prime Minister Sushil Koirala that Nepal had signed an agreement with the United Nations in 2007 that provides for simpler and faster customs clearance for relief aid in the event of a disaster.

“He has undertaken to ensure that happens, so I hope that from now we will see an improvement in those administrative issues.”

Nepal’s government has faced criticism for the slow pace of relief efforts, with many remote communities yet to receive any aid a week after the quake struck.

The country’s only international airport has also struggled to cope, with flights carrying aid being turned away because there was no space to park the plane.

Amos said access to the airport was improving, and the UN was looking at bringing more aid into the landlocked country overland from India.

But she said much more needed to be done to reach quake victims in remote mountainous areas of Nepal, already one of the world’s poorest countries even before the quake struck.

Some 6,700 people are known to have died in the quake so far.
</text>