<url>
http://www.kplctv.com/story/28924134/shreveport-doctor-recalls-recent-trip-to-nepal-before-quake
</url>

<date>
20150503
</date>

<headline>
Shreveport doctor recalls recent trip to Nepal before quake - KPLC 7 News, Lake Charles, Louisiana
</headline>

<text>
The death toll from the Nepal quake now tops 4,600 and that number will, no doubt, rise.

Another ten thousand were injured from Saturday's tremor. Aid and supplies are available from all over the world but getting them delivered, especially to remote areas, is proving to be an enormous challenge.

A doctor from LSU health was just in Nepal days before that massive magnitude 7.8 quake hit.

A scene of sorrow has overtaken Nepal as the death toll continues to climb.

That earthquake hit just 2 weeks after Dr. Horacio D'Agostino was there vacationing.

"It was the Nepalese's New Year, it was the year 2072, which I didn't know but it was a good opportunity," said D'Agostino.

During the New Year celebration, the streets were brimming with excitement. A place so rich in culture has now been reduced to rubble by the powerful earthquake.

"It's remained unchanged for probably thousands of years," said D'Agostino.

All that's left is total destruction, and debris. Millions have been affected and nearly 5,000 have died.

D'Agostino says he wasted no time phoning his friends when he heard the news.

"Saturday morning I called my friends in Kathmandu, fortunately they are okay, however the damage has been substantial,” said D'Agostino.

He says because of his recent trip, the tragedy hits close to home for him.

"Being there a week before the earthquake means I knew the people somewhat that were suffering,” said D'Agostino.

He says no matter the miles he plans to lend a hand in the effort to help those still reeling from the aftermath.

"We contributed to UNICEF and we are organizing a group at LSUS or people that will have some donations,” said D'Agostino

He hopes each donation will help ease the devastation being felt by many during this time.

There are still thousands of survivors in Nepal and relief fund has been set up.

Those wanting to help can donate to the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund through Campus Federal. The account number is 10772827. Donations are accepted electronically or people can go to the Campus Federal office. Please make checks payable to Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund. Those wishing to mail a donation can mail to: Campus Federal Credit Union, 1501 Kings Highway, Shreveport, Louisiana 71103.

Half of the money will go to the American Red Cross and the other half will go to the United Nations' World Food Program in support of Napal relief efforts.

Copyright 2015 KSLA. All rights reserved.
</text>