<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/06/capital/international-relief-continues-to-pour-in/404889.html
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
International relief continues to pour in
</headline>

<text>
May 6, 2015-

Help continues to pour in from around the world as Nepal prepares to take a path of recovery following a devastating earthquake of April 25 that killed thousands of people and caused billions of rupees in damage.

With rescue and search works almost coming to an end, the government priority has shifted towards relief and rehabilitation. And so has that of the international community and the donor agencies that came to Nepal’s aid from the very day the earthquake struck the country by sending emergency relief and rescue teams.

After assisting Nepal in search and rescue mission, the international community and donor groups are now seeing to the aid and humanitarian needs of the earthquake victims and the areas affected by the disaster.

US pledges $11m in quake response

The United States government on Tuesday pledged an additional $11 million to support the earthquake response, taking its total assistance to around $26 million.

The new funding will support the delivery of additional shelter materials, critical medical supplies, safe drinking water, improved sanitation serves and hygiene kits to people hardest hit by the earthquake of 7.9 magnitude on April 25, the US Embassy said in a statement.

Alfonso Lenhardt, the acting administrator of US Agency for International Development (USAID), said that in a meeting with the Prime Minister Sushil Koirala they had discussed on ways to work and coordinate all of the capabilities represented by various nations here.

“I think the amount is significant for the time-being but I am also focused on recovery. We are thinking about how we can help Nepal recover from this disaster,” Lenhardt told a press conference.

Similarly, four C-17 transport aircraft arrived in Kathmandu with two additional UH-1Y Hueys and 50 Air Force personnel.

US Ambassador to Nepal Peter J Bode said the blood bank and the deep-well water sources built with their assistance has been functioning well.

Interacting with the press, Bode said the funds will be largely used through their own implementing agency and conduct the procurement themselves.

Fielding questions over the possibility of outbreak of disease, Bill Berger, who leads the Disaster Assistance Response Team, said that Nepal is already subject to the disease at anytime. “But what we want to make sure that it does not increase.

In fact with the amount of medical teams flowing in the country, we hope to have better health care than it was before the disaster,” he said.

France installs water treatment plant

The French Embassy installed a water treatment plant to provide clean drinking water for the earthquake hit denizens of Kathmandu on Tuesday. According to a release issued by the embassy, the drinking water treatment plant was installed at the premises of the Alliance Française de Kathmandu (AFK) in Teku.

Water treatment plants are in high demand in the quake-affected areas.

“This plant will produce clean drinking water with a maximum capacity of 200,000 litres of drinking water per day. Water for the treatment will be provided by Kathmandu Upatyaka Khanepani Limited (KUKL) and the local residents and the affected areas,” the embassy said.

Drinking water from the treatment plant will also be distributed to the residents of Teku, Tripureshwor, Khokana, Saankhu by trucks.

The French government had sent a specialised team from the French Interior Ministry to install the plant. The embassy has pledged to set up such plants in other earthquake-affected communities in the coming days.

Sri Lankan teams treated 1,897 patients

The Sri Lanka Medical Team has treated 1,897 patients affected by the earthquake since April 26 which included both medical and surgical cases at Dolalghat and Panchkhal in Kavre district. The team has also been conducting mobile clinics in remote areas such as Palanchowk, Sipaghat, Sipang, the Sri Lankan embassy said on Tuesday.

Similarly, members of the Engineering Corps of Sri Lanka Armed Forces have so far cleared 5.1 km road in Dolalghat and six surrounding areas, which were rendered impassable by the April 25 earthquake, hindering relief works.

The engineering corps has also cleared the environs of the Bhagwati Hindu Temple of Palanchowk, enabling devotees to perform religious rituals. They have also restored a suspension bridge in Sipaghat and established water distribution points at Dolalghat.

The government of Sri Lanka has sent three aircraft to Nepal with relief material consisting of medicine, medical equipment, rice, water, tents, blankets and warm clothes, milk powder, canned food etc, which has been handed over to the government of Nepal for distribution to the needy. Sri Lanka will be sending few more cargo aircraft with relief material to Nepal in due course, the embassy said.

UK pledge help to department of infrastructure development

The UK will help Nepal’s Department of Local Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads (DoLIDAR) to reopen after it was damaged in the 7.8

magnitude earthquake so it can function without interruption to keep the road network, a lifeline for the country, open.

The Department for International Development has pledged to fund the rent for the new office space of DoLIDAR for the initial months.

Gail Marzetti, head of DFID Nepal, said, “Our philosophy is to always work side by side with the Government of Nepal, who is working hard to respond to this unprecedented emergency. A successful response to the earthquake means a successful government response”.

The DFID and the DoLIDAR Rural Access Programme is now in its second phase, working across seven districts in Nepal covering eastern, mid and far western regions.

DFID is playing a leading role in responding to Nepal’s earthquake and is currently the largest donor to the relief operation, with a total package of £22.8 million (3.5 billion rupees) and £33 million (5.1 billion rupees) from the British public.

Israel sends clown care service

Five medical clowns, who specialises on treating those who have gone through traumatic experiences, have arrived in Kathmandu to meet the earthquake victims.

The Israeli embassy in Kathmandu said that the team will remain in the country until May 12 during which they will be visiting different communities, hospitals and organisations to meet the people who have been left shaken after the earthquake.

Published: 06-05-2015 07:24
</text>