<url>
http://blogs.wsj.com/indiarealtime/2015/05/06/u-s-marines-deliver-relief-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
U.S. Marines Deliver Relief in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The U.S. Marine Corps Osprey flew low over the Tama Koshi river in far-eastern Nepal, landing in a cloud of dust in a village named Manthali.

A crowd of villagers watched from behind a chain-link fence as members of the Nepalese military sprinted to the aircraft to grab its cargo of canvas tents and tarpaulin from the World Food Program.

Five minutes later, the cargo bay was empty and the Osprey lifted into the air and flew off towards Katmandu. Two of the crew members gave each other a celebratory fist-bump.

According to the latest count on Wednesday, Nepal’s 7.8-magnitude quake late last month killed more than 7,600 people and injured close to 14,500. It also damaged or destroyed more than 350,000 homes across the impoverished nation leaving thousands in need of temporary shelter.

Many of the hardest hit hilltops and valleys of the Himalayan nation are still cut off from regular supplies as the massive earthquake triggered landslides that have covered roads, rivers and hiking paths.

The Osprey is called a tilt-rotor aircraft because it can rotate its engines, allowing it to take off and land like a helicopter but fly like an airplane.

That gives it the ability to carry more cargo and go further distances than a helicopter but still be able to land in areas without runways, said Major Christopher Demars, the aircraft’s pilot.

That doesn’t mean landing in a mountain villages is easy. The thin air makes it difficult to hover while all the dust kicked up can make it impossible to see. One landing had to be abandoned Tuesday because the dust storm was too dense.

A V-22 Osprey sits on the tarmac at Tribhuvan International Airport in Katmandu, May 6. Sean McLain/The Wall Street Journal

The squadron, which is known as the Flying Tigers and based in Japan, started making the mountain deliveries on Tuesday.

The U.S. military has sent around 170 marines, soldiers and airmen. They are part of a disaster-response team, called the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Brigade, which also helped deliver aid to the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan slammed into the Southeast Asian nation in 2013, killing more than 6,300 people.

This week the number of foreign military personnel in Nepal has risen sharply, bringing with them the earth-moving equipment and the aircraft needed to clear roads and deliver aid.

Some of the members of the U.S. Marine team had arrived in Nepal a few days after the April 25 quake but it was not until this last weekend that the Ospreys began to arrive.

The team was waiting until supplies had built up to justify flying four Ospreys all the way from Japan.

“It’s a delicate balance between when supplies arrive and when you are there distribute them,” said Col. Armellino, head of the brigade.

The U.S. military also had to wait for a formal invitation from the Nepalese government as well as permission to fly its aircraft over the countries on the trip from Japan to Nepal.

The Ospreys will continue delivering relief supplies in Nepal for up to a month, said Col. Armellino.

Back at the airport, the Ospreys refueled and took on another load of tarps and prepared to head farther north, to a small helicopter landing pad in the mountains.
</text>