<url>
http://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2015/04/25/nepal-earthquake-strikes-home-greater-boston/4rJ6YDvqMM6nlu0WgB1mQP/story.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake strikes home in Greater Boston
</headline>

<text>
Pramila Tamang (left) and Shanta Mourati (right) prayed at the Nepali community church service held at Hope Fellow Church in Cambridge on Saturday.

A devastating earthquake that struck Nepal early Saturday morning, killing an estimated 1,800 people and triggering a fatal avalanche on Mount Everest, reverberated in Greater Boston, where people from the small south Asian country frantically reached out to family and friends in their homeland.

“I’ve been up since 4 a.m. trying to reach my family and friends,” said Jaya Shah, 52, a tutor who lives in Waltham, shortly before noon Saturday. “Finally, everyone has been accounted for and they’re all safe.”

Advertisement

The massive earthquake, which reached a magnitude of 7.8, also injured thousands more.

The death toll was expected to climb even higher as emergency workers continue to dig through rubble from the earthquake, which was so powerful that it was felt in northern parts of neighboring India, Bangladesh, Tibet, and Pakistan, where more deaths were reported.

Get Fast Forward in your inbox: Forget yesterday's news. Get what you need today in this early-morning email. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here

Stunned local Nepalis said family members were devastated by the initial earthquake, and the severe tremors that followed.

“My mother told me she never, ever felt a tremor so bad in her life,” Shah said of her 72-year-old mother, who was in the middle of her daily prayer when the quake sent her fleeing from her home in Katmandu, the capital city.

Religious and cultural landmarks toppled, and at least 10 people died in an avalanche on Mount Everest, the world’s highest mountain, for which Nepal is famed.

Advertisement

Marblehead resident David Breashears, who codirected “Everest,” the first Imax film shot on Mount Everest, was at Camp 1 when the avalanche occurred and is safe, said Ellen Golbranson, chief financial officer at GlacierWorks in Boston.

Golbranson said Breashears, 59, called her Saturday via satellite phone. She said the conversation was brief and Breashears did not have a complete picture of what had happened.

“It was still early and things were still unfolding,” Golbranson said. “He was just getting bits and pieces as well.”

Breashears was there as part of his work for GlacierWorks, a nonprofit organization he established in 2007 to bring attention to the impact of climate change on the Himalayan region, she said.

Golbranson said Breashears arrived in Nepal on March 19 and she does not know when he will return.

“His concern is for all the people of Nepal,” she said. “It’s his second home and his concern is with the victims at the base camp.”

Kayana Szymczak for the Boston Globe From left to right: Birendra Adhikari, Amkit BK, Pastor Dan Pokharel (center), Kashi Raj Rai, and Silvanus Bhandari prayed at the Cambridge service on Saturday.

Meanwhile, in Greater Boston, churches and temples that minister to the region’s close-knit Nepali community planned special prayer services for Saturday night, and scrambled to put together plans to provide financial and other assistance to Nepal.

“The community here is totally shocked,” said Ram Dhital, owner of Himalayan Indian Bistro in West Roxbury. “It’s a big disaster.”

The Greater Boston Nepali Community, which estimates there are 20,000 people from Nepal living in the region, was planning to hold an emergency meeting Saturday night to discuss ways to provide aid to their homeland.

The Nepali Community Church remembered the victims at its weekly 5 p.m. service Saturday held in Hope Fellowship Church near Porter Square in Cambridge The congregation of just 35 members plans to publish information on how people can donate money to help victims on its website, Global Mission Nepal.

“We are going to collect money and send it to Nepal,” said Rev. Dan Pokharel, senior pastor at the church and mission, which has four churches in Katmandu that he said were not seriously damaged.

About 25 people, including young children, sat in the sunlit sanctuary late Saturday afternoon, to sing and pray, most of it in their native language. Many wept as they prayed for the safety of loved ones.

“We pray God may give them peace,” said Pokharel, briefly speaking in English, as he addressed the congregation.

Some said the 90-minute service helped ease fears for their devastated homeland.

“We are very [worried] for everyone in Nepal,” said Lokendra Yonghang, 32, who immigrated three months ago and lives in Malden with his wife. “Prayer helps us to be calm.”

His wife, Srijana Maharjan, 25, said her great-aunt, a friend, and two former neighbors died in the earthquake, and she worries that more casualties are to come.

“I think lots of people are trapped by their homes,” said Maharjan, whose family lives in Katmandu.

Harry Thapa prayed for his mother-in-law, whose home in Gorkha was destroyed.

“There is another home on top of her home,” said Thapa, 32, who is an intern at the global mission. “We’re praying for all of the people of Nepal.”

Across Greater Boston, Nepali immigrants said they were awakened in the early hours of the morning by phone calls and text messages, as word spread about the earthquake.

“Someone called me at 4 a.m. and I didn’t answer,” Shah said. “Then the same person sent me a text message that said, ‘Big earthquake in Nepal.’ It was scary.”

Dhital, 46, who lives in Medfield, said he found out about the tragedy on Facebook at about 6 a.m. He immediately dialed the cellphone number of his brother, who lives outside Katmandu. After about 30 minutes, he was able to reach him, he said.

“It was hard to get them, because everybody was trying to call,” Dhital said. “I kept trying and I finally talked to him. He told me all the houses were lost.”

Dhital’s family lives on a farm in Ravi Opi, a small village about 16 miles northeast of Katmandu. None of his family members were inside the home when the earthquake struck “like a big wave,” Dhital said, and none were hurt.

The family — his parents, two brothers, and their families — will live temporarily in two tin shelters they plan to put up on the farm, he said.

Sheelah Manandhar, owner of Kathmandu Spice restaurant in Arlington, said she was relieved to learn her family was safe at their home in Jawkhla, a village about 3 miles west of Katmandu.

“They were at home, but nothing happened to them,” Manandhar said. “They were all outside when it happened.”
</text>