<url>
http://www.marinij.com/general-news/20150505/marin-residents-with-ties-to-nepal-rally-support-for-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Marin residents with ties to Nepal rally support for earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
Journey Home Foundation founder Bikash Gurung is from the village of Laprak, where 95 percent of the buildings have collapsed. Courtesy Journey home Foundation

Ten days after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake devastated Nepal, Marin residents with connections to the country continue to rally support for emergency response, and the lucky ones are counting their blessings that their loved ones survived.

Kentfield resident Bikash Gurung and his wife, Renee Marcelle, are using the Journey Home Foundation, a nonprofit they created five years ago to combat human trafficking in Nepal, to get food, clothing and other essential supplies to remote villages in Nepal.

Gurung was raised in Laprak, one of the remote villages in the country’s Gorkha District, which was at the quake’s epicenter. Gurung’s mother, father and four brothers — all of whom live in Nepal — survived the quake.

“It was a miracle,” said Marcelle, who met Gurung on a Himalayan trek in 2000; he was her guide.

After the quake, it took five days for Gurung to determine that his brother, Prem Gurung, a trek guide, was safe.

“He was on an expedition and we didn’t hear from him until Thursday,” Marcelle said, “so we were scared that something might have happened to him.”

Missing son

Bob Dickinson, a Marin native who now lives in Petaluma, is also counting his blessings. Dickinson’s son, Spencer Dickinson, was crossing a snowy pass on his way to a lesser peak with a view of Mount Everest when the quake hit.

“He was out of touch for several days,” the elder Dickinson said.

His son contacted him by satellite phone on April 28, three days after the quake. Dickinson’s son is safe and has raised nearly $10,000 on the www.gofundme.com website to help a family he met in Kathmandu rebuild their home.

“I went from absolute fear and worry to now just being absolutely overjoyed and impressed,” the elder Dickinson said.

And Kami Sherpa, a political refugee from Nepal who works at Benjamin Franklin Plumbing in Novato, is happy to report that his wife, mother and siblings all survived the quake; but the houses of his mother, two sisters and two brothers were all destroyed. Sherpa has concluded he can best help his family by remaining here and sending them as much money as possible.

Not everyone has been so fortunate, however. Mill Valley resident Jay Tamang, a former manager of a Nepal trekking company who came to the U.S. in 2004, lost three cousins when a church in Kathmandu collapsed due to the quake.

Donations collected

Gurung and Marcelle have collected $35,000 in donations via www.gofundme.com and their Journey Home Foundation site. Gurung said that in Laprak 95 percent of the homes and the only school have collapsed.

“Almost all of the houses are unliveable,” Gurung said.

Advertisement

Gurung and Marcelle are also asking people to donate such items as warm clothes, boots, blankets, rain gear, sleeping bags and tents. They can be dropped off at the Journey Home Foundation’s San Rafael office at 930 Irwin St., Suite 218.

“We are going to be collecting these sorts of items, putting them in duffle bags and delivering them,” Marcelle said.

Marcelle said the Journey Home Foundation was well positioned to respond to the emergency since it has an office in Kathmandu equipped with solar power, computers and food and water supplies. She said Journey Home was instrumental in getting more than 250 injured people from Laprak and surrounding villages airlifted to a hospital in Pokhara.

But Marcelle said, “Our relief effort was inhibited because of the monsoon-like rain that went on for the first three or four days following the earthquake.”

Psychic toll

Although Gurung’s family members weren’t injured in the quake, his father, a subsistence farmer, was devastated by the loss of his house. Gurung said it took his father 20 years to complete the structure.

“He’s so forlorn,” Marcelle said. “He’s living under a tarp next to the wreckage, not speaking to anyone.”

Shelters need to be built quickly because Nepal’s monsoon season begins in earnest in August. The rebuilding process will be complicated by the fact that many of the country’s young men left the country before the earthquake, migrating to India, Malaysia or one of the gulf nations in search of work.

“There are not enough guys; they’re all in the Middle East,” Gurung said.

Marcelle said to address this issue the Journey Home Foundation hopes to recruit interns from local high schools to go to Nepal and assist with the rebuilding.

Donations to the relief effort can be made by visiting the California Sherpa Association’s website at californiasherpa.org or the Journey Home Foundation’s site at journeyhomefoundation.org.
</text>