<url>
http://www.homeandtextilestoday.com/article/519367-rug-companies-retailers-aid-nepals-earthquake-victims
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Rug companies, retailers aid Nepal’s earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
New York – More than $165,000 has been collected so far by retailers, manufacturers and rug industry organizations to aid relief for the victims of the recent earthquake that shook Nepal and claimed more than 7,500 lives.

Industry organizations Goodweave and the Oriental Rug Importers Association (ORIA) have each established charitable funds to provide assistance. In ORIA’s case, that includes aid to organizations that are active in the area, including AmeriCares, Care & Fair Nepal, Nepal Burn & Cleft Hospital and STEP Label.

“The ORIA has been in contact with industry members and organizations who operate in Nepal to find out the best way in which we can help the people devastated by the recent earthquake there,” said Lucille Laufer, executive director of ORIA.

Goodweave, a non-profit dedicated to eradicating child labor in the Asian area rug industry, set up an emergency fund for immediate assistance as well as future programs to reduce vulnerability to such disasters.

“We do know that many will require immediate relief — in the form of food, water, blankets, and other household necessities,” said executive director Nina Smith, noting that efforts are underway to track down remaining team members and to assess how carpet weaving families have been affected.

“We’ll also have to support infrastructure repair and improvements at Hamro Ghar [which serves as a center for rescued rug kids], our other schools, as well as to help the carpet weaving businesses and workers rebuild their factories and homes and get on their feet as soon as possible,” she added.

On the retail side, Kohl’s Corp. has made a $50,000 cash donation through the American Red Cross, which is delivering emergency supplies and services in the impacted areas, and Toronto-based department store chain Hudson’s Bay has given C$50,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to support victims.

Manufacturers are also actively collecting and donating funds toward the cause, as many of these companies produce and import products from Nepal for sale in the North American market.

“We felt that we needed to help Nepal during this tragedy,” said Alex Peykar, principal of Nourison. “Our industry has always had close ties with the people and region of Nepal.”

The Saddle Brook, N.J.-based manufacturer is making an immediate $10,000 donation to ORIA’s Charitable Fund and plans additional proceeds from its best-selling Nepal Collection, which he said was inspired “by the artistry and culture of the country.”

Peykar added: “Our goal is to raise $25,000 during the month of May and we hope that these funds can help with the relief efforts.” Nourison will donate that has been supporting the needs of children and their families in carpet weaving regions for over a decade. For more information, visit www.nourison.com or

Feizy Rugs has made a $15,000 donation to The Global Fund for Children (GFC).

“As rug manufacturers, we have worked for decades with the people of Nepal,” said John Feizy, ceo. “In addition to our commitment, we are asking that all of our employees, customers and vendors please donate to help aid in the recovery of this beautiful country.”

Surya has made a donation of $20,000 to the American Red Cross, said Satya Tiwari, president. “We can only imagine the challenges and uncertainty that lie ahead, and wanted to reach out in some small way to help those affected begin the road to recovery. We hope that our customers and vendor partners will also consider donating or helping in any way that they can.”

Capel Rugs has also made a donation – undisclosed -- to the ORIA Charitable Fund, said Cameron Capel, the company’s vp of national accounts for Capel Rugs and a member of the ORIA executive board. "All of the money being collected by ORIA is going directly to helping those on the ground in Nepal who need it the most - especially children."

Kas Rugs announced it will make a $20,000 donation toward the relief efforts, said Rao Yarlagadda, president, and will add to that additional donations made by its employees.

To make a donation via the various organizations assisting Nepal’s victims, see the links below:
</text>