<url>
http://www.clickittefaq.com/more-stories/govt-to-set-up-national-emergency-operation-centre/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Govt to set up National Emergency Operation Centre
</headline>

<text>


Ittefaq Report

The government on Wednesday decided to set up a well-equipped National Emergency Operation Centre (NEOC) to conduct, coordinate, guide and monitor search and rescue operations during any possible disaster, including earthquake, and its aftermath.

The decision was taken at a meeting of the National Disaster Management Council held with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in the chair at her office.

After the meeting, PM’s Press Secretary AKM Shamim Chowdhuri briefed reporters.

He said the NEOC will be housed in a well-equipped and high magnitude earthquake-tolerant building alongside a big and wide road and near the airport.

Through the centre, the Press Secretary said, search and rescue operations could be accelerated during any earthquake and other natural disasters in coordination with all concerned. Besides, it would be easy to urge for national and international assistance from this centre.

The meeting also decided to launch a website, titled ‘National Disaster Management Information System’ and create opportunities for people to participate in disaster management through mobile applications.

The meeting informed that Cyclone Preparedness Programme (CPP) is in operation in 322 unions of 37 upazilas under 13 coastal districts which were set up by Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.

Under the programme, 49365 volunteers, including 16455 female volunteers were trained. Besides the coastal volunteers would be imparted specialised training to combat possible earthquakes in urban areas.

The meeting expressed sorrow and conveyed sympathy to the victims of recent devastated earthquake in Nepal.

The meeting also held detailed discussions on the relief activities of Bangladesh government for the earthquake-affected Nepalese people.

Six medical teams of Bangladesh army, 10 metric tons of relief materials, including dry food, water, medicine, blanket and other emergency goods have initially been sent to Nepal from Bangladesh.

Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said Bangladesh would provide possible support to Nepal so that it could get over the present condition.

She also said potato, oil and vegetable could be sent along with rice, dry food and water for the earthquake victims.

Agriculture Minister Matia Chowdhury, Housing and Public Works Minister Engineer Mosharraf Hossain, Road Transport and Bridges Minister Obaidul Quader, Shipping Minister Shajahan Khan, Food Minister Quamrul Islam, State Minister for Home Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal attended the meeting.

The Cabinet Secretary, the chiefs of the three services and other high civil and military officials were present.
</text>