<url>
http://blogs.economictimes.indiatimes.com/letterfromwashington/why-india-does-something-that-bolster-its-image-as-an-emerging-power/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Why does India fumble in creating its image as an emerging power?
</headline>

<text>
Why is it that sometimes when India does something that should essentially bolster its image as an emerging power — lately said to be a leading power — we fumble needlessly? You could say these are “growing pangs” and the metabolism of power will stabilise in time. True, but some mistakes are avoidable, especially those that turn a positive into a negative.

India’s relief effort in Nepal was exemplary by any standard just like the complex and massive rescue operation in Yemen last month. The speedy responses have gone some distance to show India’s institutional capacity, a source of scepticism among foreign policymakers. Yes, we can, was the latent message as India reached out and touched Nepal in its hour of need.

Indian teams were first on the ground and in large numbers. They were way ahead of other neighbours and their success was directly measurable by Chinese spokesmen’s reluctance to mention India even when pressed by foreign journalists. But the “coming out” party was spoilt somewhat by media controversies. If the Yemen operation saw a thin-skinned Indian minister lose his cool and use unparliamentary language to describe the media, the Nepal effort was scarred by Indian media’s awful behaviour.

Some of the shine came off Operation Maitri since many of the TV reporters were flying around in Indian relief planes. Soon Nepalese communists were telling their government — restrain Indian relief operations or displease China. No prizes for guessing where the message originated but in the end India got grief where it should have only collected points and goodwill. Yes, countries are hated in direct proportion to their size and might even when they do good. The United States can give us a lengthy briefing on the subject.

But it’s not always the case and more importantly, it needn’t be. India’s soft power creep around the world — some by device but mostly not — is the best example of influence by other means. The government rides on it effortlessly. What went wrong in Nepal with #GoHomeIndianMedia is complex and obnoxious behaviour of Indian reporters is a large part of it. But if 90% of the responsibility lies with the editors and their untrained reporters unleashed on a tragic situation, at least 10% lies with the government and its apparent anxiety not to miss another coming-out moment. Plentiful commentary and informational nuggets from Nepal show the Indian Air Force was ferrying far too many TV crews to the disaster areas. They sang the praises of Indian defence forces for doing a great job, which incidentally they are accustomed to doing.

Lest we forget, India mounted the biggest civilian airlift in history in 1990 when it evacuated 1,10,000 people from Iraq and Kuwait with 500 flights. It again rescued Indians from Lebanon in 2006 and from Libya in 2011. The institutions involved have it down to a science and they can do it without the politicians. The problem started when the international media didn’t highlight India’s vast and varied effort in Nepal. Instead, it praised China and the United States even though India had 700 personnel on the ground compared to much smaller teams from elsewhere.

Feedback on foreign coverage trickled in from BJP supporters and non-partisans alike. Another government might have shrugged, complained in private about the inherent bias of western media and gone on with the job. But the Modi smart set wants the narrative set on its terms.

The impatience shows. If they won’t highlight it, we will ourselves. Thus the overloading of TV journalists on Indian relief planes where supplies should have been. Within four days of the earthquake hitting Nepal, Kiren Rijiju, minister of state for home, said in Parliament that India was a “leading nation in disaster response” in case the constant updates hadn’t registered. What good is charity if one’s name is not plastered on it — just ask the millionaires who demand that buildings be named after them before parting with the donation. All countries mount PR campaigns to win “hearts and minds” but the key is subtlety. It is a medium-to long-term project. Decades of resentment born of India not getting a fair shake can’t become overkill. Shrill TV reporters fighting for TRP ratings are not the answer.

Jingoistic Indian television coverage and a bursting desire to be recognised is a bad combination. But these PR disasters will continue if the government’s media strategy continues to lurch between pure contempt and open manipulation.
</text>