<url>
http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/local/2015/05/05/ud-students-remember-nepal-earthquake-victims-vigil/26955019/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
UD students remember Nepal earthquake victims at vigil
</headline>

<text>
Buy Photo Prayash Pyakurel, a University of Delaware physics graduate student, speaks to those gathered for a vigil Tuesday to honor the victims of last month’s Nepal earthquake. (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)Buy Photo

University of Delaware students gathered at a candlelight vigil Tuesday to express solidarity for the millions affected by last month's earthquake as well as to remember the more than 7,300 killed in Nepal.

Among the approximately 300 people holding candles in front of UD's Memorial Hall on The Green were members of the Delaware Medical Relief Team, which is deploying a group of local medical personnel to treat earthquake survivors in Nepal.

"When we see now that our brothers in Nepal suffer these tragedies, you can't help but [have] that passion and that fervor for humanity as we grieve with our friends and our loved ones," Dr. Reynold Agard, a relief team co-founder, told the gathering Tuesday evening. "We could not just sit back and not do anything."

This is the first relief trip for the Delaware Medical Relief Team since 2010, when dozens of volunteers spent nearly four months in the port city of Jacmel, helping victims of the devastating Haiti earthquake. The team raised and spent $250,000 for that effort. Apart from bouts of exhaustion and dehydration, volunteers remained healthy.

Buy Photo (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)

Nepal fundraising to date totals about $40,000, but volunteers are optimistic that they can meet or exceed Haiti's total. Financial contributions are being accepted at www.delawaremedicalreliefteam.org/.

Also at Tuesday's event, which was organized by Nepali students at UD and others, was 27-year-old Swapnil Baral, a student from Kathmandu.

Baral plans to return home at the end of the semester to be with his parents, whose home was damaged by the 7.8-magnitude earthquake. While the home still stands, hairline fractures make the structure unsafe to be in. His parents have been living in tents since the earthquake, he said.

The vigil helps him and other Nepali students cope as they worry about friends and families back home. "When we see everybody praying for us, we feel that we are not alone," Baral said.

The Delaware community has responded to the humanitarian crisis by fundraising, donating supplies and even traveling to the South Asian country.

Buy Photo (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)

Dagsboro residents Amy Kaufman and her daughter Holly were on their way to Nepal for a nonemergency charity mission for their nonprofit group, the Shauna Rose Kaufman Foundation, when the earthquake hit. The foundation has been performing charity work there for the past five years. The mother rented a Jeep this week and drove across the border from India.

The women said they could fill up the Jeep with medicine, tents for shelter and food.

"With the Jeep, we can also reach remote areas that are not receiving any help," the elder Kaufman told The News Journal via an email.

Buy Photo (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)

On May 15, SoDel Concepts, the Sussex County hospitality group founded by late restaurateur Matt Haley, will donate a portion of sales from 15 area restaurants to assist in Nepal relief efforts. Locations include Fish On Bar & Grill in Lewes and Lupo Di Mare Italian Kitchen and Papa Grande's Coastal Taqueria in Rehoboth.

As part of that effort, the Carl M. Freeman Foundation and the Matthew James Haley Trust also will donate funds to Save the Children, an international children's charity. A dollar amount has not been determined, according to SoDel President Scott Kammerer.

HOW TO HELP

Here are different ways people can provide relief in Nepal:

• People wanting to help the Delaware Medical Relief Team, which is sending medical relief teams to Nepal, can do so by sending donations to 923 Morningdale Drive, Wilmington, DE 19810 or visiting www.delawaremedicalreliefteam.org.

• To give to the Shauna Rose Kaufman Foundation send to Shauna Rose Kaufman Foundation, 31463 Wingate Road, Dagsboro, DE 19939 or visit shaunarosekaufmanfoundation.com.

• People wanting to donate to rehabilitation efforts in Nepal can visit the University of Delaware Relief Fund for Earthquake Victims in Nepal at www.crowdrise.com/ud-unicef-nepalearthquake.

Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1Ie3V2H
</text>