<url>
http://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2015/apr/27/hundreds-australians-nepal-unaccounted-for-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Hundreds of Australians in Nepal still missing after devastating earthquake
</headline>

<text>
No deaths have been reported, but several hundred Australians who were in the country when the earthquake struck remain unaccounted for

Hundreds of Australians remain unaccounted for after a massive earthquake killed more than 2,500 people in Nepal.

More than 200 Australians have been confirmed safe but 549 were registered with the government as travelling in the area

The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, said on Sunday the government was unaware of any Australian casualties.

“While there are reports of extensive loss of life, at this point there are no reports of Australian deaths,” Bishop said in a statement. Staff from the foreign affairs department were travelling to Nepal to help locate other citizens.

Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake has been described as a “huge disaster” by World Vision chief Tim Costello, who was due to arrive in Nepal on Monday

A 6.7-magnitude aftershock on Sunday compounded the worst disaster to hit the impoverished Himalayan nation in more than 80 years.

“As the full extent of this enormous tragedy emerges, every minute counts,” Costello said. “We must act immediately to save lives and help those who are suffering.”

About 200 World Vision staff in Nepal were dispatching emergency supplies, he said.

Red Cross workers on the scene were administering first aid, organising blood supplies for medical centres and providing food, shelter and water.

“It’s now a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble, help the injured and support the survivors,” Australian Red Cross’s Peter Walton said.

“We are very concerned for the safety and wellbeing of thousands of people in Nepal and across the region.”

A team from the Fred Hollows Foundation with Australian, Vietnamese, Bangladeshi and Pakistani members was in Nepal when the earthquake struck but all have been confirmed safe.

Among Australians who were yet to make contact with family by Sunday evening were the brother of the actor Hugh Sheridan.

“Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest,” Sheridan tweeted.

On Sunday afternoon, Perth woman Ballantyne Forder, who was volunteering in an orphanage and listed as missing in Kathmandu, was announced as safe after making contact with her family. Her sister, Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted: ‘She’s safe!!! Moved the entire orphanage to a field where they’ve been camping since yesterday! So proud of my little sister!”

Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) SHE'S SAFE!!! Moved the entire orphanage to a field where they've been camping since yesterday! So proud of my little sister!

The government’s pledged $5m aid will be split with $2.5m going to Australian NGOs, $2m being sent to support United Nations Partners and $500,000 offered to the Australian Red Cross.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has opened its emergency call unit and updated travel advice for Nepal, warning of disruptions to communication, transport and tourist infrastructure in the country.

Australians concerned for family and friends are asked to try to contact them directly before calling DFAT’s 24-hour consular emergency centre on (02) 6261 3305 or, within Australia, 1300 555 135.
</text>