<url>
http://www.wdrb.com/story/28984755/qa-louisville-based-missionary-provides-update-from-kathmandu-in-aftermath-of-nepal-quake
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Q&A: Louisville-based missionary provides update from Kathmandu - WDRB 41 Louisville News
</headline>

<text>
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (WDRB) -- Many of us have seen the horrific images of the earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, April 25. As of this writing, the earthquake killed more than 7,000 people and left countless more injured. It even triggered an avalanche that killed several on Mount Everest, the world's tallest peak.Roger Hoagland, a Christian missionary based in Louisville, decided to help. He arrived in the capitol city of Kathmandu at 8:30 a.m. on Tuesday, April 28 -- just three days after the earthquake -- and was among one of the first relief teams to hit the ground in Nepal.After spending one week heading up a medical team there, an emotional Hoagland spoke by phone from Kathmandu with WDRB's Travis Kircher. He talked about the some of the horrors he's witnessed, some of the dangers still present, and how he manages to bring hope to people who have lost everything.This interview took place on May 5, 2015.Yes. I'm a graduate of Fern Creek High School. I graduated in 1972. I graduated from the University of Louisville in 1975 – got my Master's Degree at U of L. I went right into education. I taught at the public school level and then at the private school for the last 25 years. I was the administrator of Evangel Christian School. Also, I served as the mission director for Evangel – it's a large ministry in Louisville.So when the earthquake occurred, I was in a mission. I was in Turkey, and I just felt a prompting to head to Nepal – and I've been there two other occasions, two other years – to lead medical teams up in the mountains. So I was familiar with it. We have assisted with earthquake relief on four other occasions. One in China in 2006. One hundred thousand died in that earthquake. We brought food into the mountains and other assistance. And also three separate trips to Haiti. We were the first to be on a commercial flight into Haiti after the earthquake, so I was somewhat familiar with that process.So I arrived, as I said, just under three days from when the earthquake hit on April 25.First of all, many of the roads were blocked off, and I guess the most frightening thing to me, when you see electric wires on the ground, you think, ‘There's no way we should pass near that.' Well, in this case, you saw tens of thousands of wires down, so I was a little uncomfortable moving around the city.I was impressed with how the people of Nepal work together to try to rescue and uncover in much debris in the area.I was stunned by the leaning buildings – and what happens in this case, you have so many that come down completely, so you just see a mound of rubble. But then you see many that have cracks and are just leaning a little bit. And after a while, day after day, you just kind of forget that they are there.The realization hit me hard the other day. I walked past one, and I was on a sidewalk and I went to a location. Two days later, I came back and I could not pass through that. The building had completely come onto the sidewalk, so had I been there, I would have been killed. So that's something. These buildings are just ready to come down.I would say another thing you observe is that it seems like 25 percent of the buildings are either destroyed or need to be demolished. Another thing I noticed when I arrived is the people out in the streets. As I said, I've been to Nepal before, and have never seen so many people on the streets. And I understood after talking to different ones, that they were afraid to go back into their homes. They had enough sense to know, ‘If my home has numerous cracks in it, it's not safe to be there.' So fields are just flooded with people with makeshift tents and tarps. They're lying on the sidewalk area and everywhere at night.My flight was an early flight for rescue teams. Not many were here at all. But now the teams – and I believe there's 20 nations represented with rescue and relief teams, and they are doing an excellent job. And let me just say, I am so proud of the United States because we stand tall there with our people. You see them on the street so prevalent here.I witnessed the rescue of two people after five days, which was extraordinary. A group from Los Angeles – they were leading the way with that. What happened, they were walking past a building – and again, five days – and they heard the noise of a man, so they started trying to dig him out, which is a frightening operation, because where they're going under, the building can collapse more. So people are really at risk doing that. So the crowd gathered and got larger and larger and the rumor spread that someone was alive. And after seeing so much death, it became just a very exciting moment, so when they pulled him out and put him on a stretcher, it was just a beautiful thing. The crowd erupted in applause, and then a second one was rescued, and it was an exciting day.The one boy looked like he was maybe 25. He looked to be in pretty rough condition physically. That's the one they spent so much time trying to rescue.If you can imagine two rows of servicemen from Nepal combined with United States rescue men from Los Angeles. They just joined arms in these two long lines so people would not push through, because they knew that someone was alive after five days, which was remarkable. I was there perhaps 45 minutes to an hour, and the crowd – just a ballpark figure – was maybe 2,000 people waiting. And rumor spread quickly that someone was found alive. Then you see a group of doctors and medics running ahead, right through the middle of the two lines of servicemen. And right behind them, they're carrying the stretcher of this boy. Again, he looked about 25, very bruised.And then just a little later, there was a man, I would say around 30, that was dressed in army fatigues. But he was also rescued. I don't know the story behind him.Most are, I believe, presumed dead now because of the length of time, but you still have hope.But I will say that, what is troubling to me as a parent – I have four sons – is to walk by…if I walk from here, where I am now, across town, I will pass perhaps 100-200 mounds of rubble. Maybe more. In each of those, it's filled with bodies that haven't been taken out. So as a parent, if you can imagine walking by these and knowing my children or my mother is under there, it's just an overwhelming thing emotionally.And that is everywhere. I'll give you an example. There is a tower that was the largest tower in Kathmandu. And it was an observation deck. But it was an iconic building, very similar to the Eiffel Tower for Paris or the Statue of Liberty for the U.S. So this tower – you would see it in postcards. Anyway, when the earthquake occurred on Saturday just before noon, there were 250 people on top of that tower, or inside of it. The tower came down almost totally, and out of those, they recovered 40 bodies. So one person out of 250 survived that fall. So there are 209 people in that big pile of rubble which I pass. And that is the story all over the city – that they just do not have the equipment to recover the remains. It's just not there. And the task is just too big by hand. And when I say ‘rubble,' some of the ‘rubble' is tree stories high.Something else: As a Christian, we in the United States – most of us – worship on Sunday. They worship here on Saturday, and this occurred right when the churches were in service – in the middle of their service. I was at a location today where there were 75 people worshiping on the seventh floor of a seven-floor building, and most everything under them was clear. People were out shopping or doing whatever for the day – Saturday was their holiday – but this group of worshipers was on the seventh floor. So when the building came down, fortunately, 45 survived injured, [but] 30 died. That is common in many of the churches throughout the city. Christianity is a minority. But nevertheless, it was a very tragic thing for those going to church that day.Well, that's a good question. What I have found is the modern buildings here, most of those stood tall. You can look at a street and see four or five buildings that look untouched, and right next to them will be this big pile of rubble. What was explained to me: the old construction, they used this type of brick that is made of clay. From the outside, it looks like a strong brick, but if you throw it down, it turns into sand, or powder. So that's what happened. Many of these buildings were built with that type of brick, so when they came down from the top, it's just a domino effect.But it amazes me to look at streets where you see some buildings without even a crack.I've been working in a hospital almost every day, bringing food to families and ministering to patients, and the hospital is probably 9-10 stories, and it's frightening just to look on the outside. You have cracks throughout the structure. I'm hoping the foundation is good, but the façade is terrible. And yet, they're continuing to operate there as a full-service hospital.And the need is great. The hallways have been full of victims – and I've worked with, mainly, the earthquake victims. And it's just heartbreaking. There's a lady there that's, just as an example, who is just grieving. She's in pain. Her leg is broken. Her arm is broken. But she's also lost a son. So the emotional toll on her…I've been working, also, with a little girl whose parents cannot even afford to come visit their daughter. They live in a remote area. She has fractures in the bottom of her back. She just had surgery and I've been with her almost every day. Another lady was grieving…and she had lost her son and husband. So when they lose family members, they also lost their home. So it is quite overwhelming.The average income here is about $1,500 U.S. equivalents per year. So very, very poor people – so to start over is a very huge challenge the them.Oh my. I have an interpreter that travels with me. Some of these -- I would say 20 percent do know English. The interpreter helps me there. What I do is I reach out and I touch them. I give them a hug. I shake their hand and I show with my expression how deeply sorry I am, and have the interpreter to help me. That's about all that I can do.But we can do more. If you give them something while you're doing that, I believe that is a comfort. You present them food. You present them money. It's just a little ray of hope that somebody I don't even know is trying to bless my life. So that's part of what I feel I need to do while I'm here – and I'm trying to do – is just be a light in this dark time for them. But it is – it's hard to know what to say. But the Bible speaks that ‘when you've done it to the least of these, my brethren,' you've done it to the Lord, or if you give a cup of water, it's as doing it unto the Lord. I think it's that same principle. We don't know these people. We're not necessarily trying to convert, but we're trying to love them, and be a light and an encouragement to them.Yes – oh yes. Yes. Well, I got out of bed because I thought that somebody had broken into my room, it so scared me. It was just that the beds were moving and there was cracking noise all around me. I guess that was the most frightening one. But there has been, probably while I have been here, three or four or five, that you could just feel the trembling. Nothing serious. But where they are of concern are for the buildings that are unstable and already in very poor condition. That's where you could set them off. Thankfully, not a lot of people are in those buildings. They're using wisdom. But they are continuing to walk right by the buildings, and I think with the idea that they're gonna come straight down to the bottom, but that's not always the case. As I told you before, sometimes they go sideways. That's a significant concern.Yesterday I felt one. I didn't feel it much, but a lady spoke to me. She said, ‘Did you feel that? Did you feel that?' It was in the afternoon yesterday.Well I think on the ground level, a great amount of food has been brought in. In fact, I think that is the challenge. Our group from Louisville is taking tons of this up into the mountains where a lot of aid has not reached these areas. They're devastated. So I would say here the food is good and these transport planes are bringing in tons and tons of food. And they certainly need that.But I think they also need money. Because if you look at the long-term, they're going to have to rebuild. They're going to have to find a place to rent. They're going to have to get strong tents if they're going to endure months like this instead of a tarp. And so I just – I wish I had more money to hand out, and honestly I've handed out so much, because it's one of those situations where you see the needs, and how do you say no? [HOAGLAND'S VOICE FALTERS.] They're everywhere. And you just want to bless – and money works. And they know more than we know what they need. That money does buy them necessities. They know the stores to go to – and there are many stores that are open – that sell the items cheaper than we would find them. So I think people that send in money to these organizations are doing a good thing. They need money.It's not gonna be a quick fix. It's gonna take years to re-establish these communities. Hopefully they build them with modern security techniques that they'll be more stable, because this is, of course, an earthquake-prone area. In 1990s, they had a very large one here.I have not been in the United States since this has happened, so I can't say. I haven't seen news from the United States, but from what I can see from our church, the response was terrific. They rallied together and they're bringing money into Nepal. The team will be here tomorrow morning and have brought in – I don't know the exact figure, but I know it's over $20,000. I was very thankful for that. So I do think people in the United States have this sense of a great need, and hopefully they will contribute. This is a time to step up to the plate.And I believe the U.S., more than any other country, I'll say, except Israel – Israel I have seen in these disasters step up very tall and are quick to be there and quick to set up hospitals. But the United States, I would say, they stand up the tallest as far as bringing in aid and equipment needed.That's one of the things, I will say Travis, there is not enough equipment here. I have been all around the city in-depth, and I have seen perhaps 8-10 large pieces of equipment to move the debris. But if they United States if that happened – in Louisville – we would have hundreds and hundreds of pieces. Perhaps thousands. So they're just short of equipment. And that's going to take time to bring that in from mainland China or India or wherever they can bring those large pieces in, the bulldozers they need and the backhoes and things like that. They just don't have enough.And the airport is woefully inadequate. One runway. And so to get all these – and space for nine planes, smaller planes. It's just not used to the traffic that will be required to come in and bring all the aid. It's just not big enough. But they're doing well. They're pushing some domestic flights back, and I've heard stories where the planes sometimes circle for hours and have to go to India to refuel, then return to Kathmandu and hope they can land. So that's good and bad: the good news is there's a lot of aid and rescue workers going in.Well, I think it's what we should do. Again, it goes back to that philosophy, which is a scripture: if you've done it to the least of these my brethren, you've done it unto me. I think it doesn't matter who they are – if we do know them, if we do not – if there's a need, we try to help. I think that's the spirit of America. It's certainly the spirit of Christianity, to reach out and bless people you don't know. It's a joy for me. I come home, or get into my hotel, and I just feel energized every day in the afternoons when I come in after a long day. It's just, ‘Thank you Lord for my family that's alive in America. Thank you for this opportunity to serve.' It truly is a joy.
</text>