<url>
http://www.leaderlive.co.uk/news/147628/-we-re-lucky-to-be-alive-says-nepal-earthquake-survivor-from-wrexham.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
'We're lucky to be alive' says Nepal earthquake survivor from Wrexham
</headline>

<text>
A MAN who survived being stranded in Nepal following the recent earthquake said they “could have been wiped out at any moment”.

Dan Hughes and brothers Darren and Jason Russell arrived back in the UK on Saturday after being trapped in Talu, a small isolated village about 50 miles from Kathmandu, for five days.

Having been registered missing by the Red Cross, they were airlifted from Talu by helicopter and flew into Manchester Airport on Saturday.

Mr Hughes, from the Summerhill area of Wrexham, said he and his friends were lucky to be alive but wants people to spare a thought for those still in the quake-hit capital of the Asian country.

The earthquake, which measured 7.8 on the Richter scale, struck on Saturday, April 25.

The trio had flown to Kathmandu on April 19 to join a trekking expedition but were trapped in Talu for five days, unable to contact their families to let them know they were safe.

They had been travelling around the Gosaikund Lake area of Ghopte less than 100 miles from Mount Everest when the earthquake hit.

Casting his mind back to the moment the disaster struck, Mr Hughes said: “I remember it all, it was surreal, the ground was shaking violently.

“I’d never encountered a quake before but I knew what it was. It did take me a few moments to accept that it was happening.”

The 36-year-old said moments before they had been for a rest at a tea room and returned moments after disaster struck to find it had collapsed.

“I don’t know what would have happened had we stayed in the tea room. We could have been injured or worse because this all happened in a matter of minutes. Thankfully the owner was unhurt, just a little dusty if anything,” said Mr Hughes.

Following the earthquake, Mr Hughes said they had to contend with rockfalls, landslides and aftershocks.

He said: “The aftershocks went on for days afterwards, all happening unexpectedly. One of us could have been in the wrong spot and we could have been wiped out at any moment.

“We’re lucky not to be one of the statistics.”

Mr Hughes said in the five days following the catastrophe, a Nepalese family allowed them to stay in their huts and shared their food with them.

“We’re very grateful to them because we were well protected there and they fed us but we were mindful because they were running out of food, so it was a dilemma for us wondering whether we’d get rescued and what we

would do,” said Mr Hughes.

Despite witnessing the calamity and destruction, Mr Hughes said this had not put him off.

“It was impeccably bad timing but it has not put me off for the future. You have to think about it like this – you could step out in your local village and be hit by a bus, you can’t be held back and it’s unlikely to happen to us again.”

Mr Hughes said his thoughts are now with the people of Nepal.

“We’re very lucky that we survived but what about those affected by this? My thoughts are with them. I feel bad because we’ve left and escaped. People over there have had their homes destroyed and lost loved ones.”

Mr Hughes is now urging people to give what they can to give aid to those affected in Nepal and in particular is backing charity ‘Serve On’ which provides relief to places affected by natural disaster, conflict and climate-related events.

On Monday it was announced the British public had donated £33 million to the DEC Nepal earthquake appeal.

The death toll has now risen to more than 7,000 and the Nepalese authorities have ruled out the possibility of finding more survivors.

To find out more about the work of the charity ‘Serve On’ visit www.serveon.org.uk/ or to donate to provide support for those affected by the earthquake you can do so via www.redcross.org.uk/ NepalEarthquake
</text>