<url>
http://www.illawarramercury.com.au/story/3057147/nepal-earthquake-australian-tyronne-white-last-seen-in-village-swallowed-by-mud/?cs=4110
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australian Tyronne White last seen in village swallowed by mud
</headline>

<text>
Langtang village, before the earthquake hit. Photo: Facebook

﻿Nestled in a valley to the north of Kathmandu, the small village of Langtang was one of the most beautiful places in the Himalayas.

Now, it no longer exists. The first footage taken from the air shows a sea of brown mud, ice and debris has swallowed the 55 hotels and guesthouses, as well as villagers' homes, that once stood on the peaceful valley floor.

Ten days after the devastating 7.8-magnitude quake rumbled through the mountains, Langtang is thought to be the worst-hit village in Nepal.

And it was in that village that NSW man Tyronne White, 44, was last seen by a fellow traveller, two days before the earthquake struck on April 25.

The pair shared lunch, and Mr White, originally from Taree, spoke of how he was planning to head further into the mountains, hiking on his own.

He has not been heard from since.

"We're facing facts, and it's not looking good. I'm not sleeping, we're a mess," said Mr White's cousin, Marc Wade Patek, from Sydney.

Mr White's mother and father, Margaret and Douglas, and his brother, Brett, were sick with worry, and Brett was considering flying to Nepal to start searching for his brother, Mr Patek said.

Nepali police and local volunteers have found the bodies of about 100 trekkers and villagers buried in the avalanche set off by the earthquake in Langtang. They were digging through snow and ice for signs of dozens more missing, officials said overnight.

The trekkers' bodies were recovered on Saturday and Sunday in the village, 60 kilometres north of Kathmandu, which is on a trekking route popular with westerners.

The dead include at least seven foreigners but only two have been identified.

"Local volunteers and police personnel are digging through six-feet (deep) snow with shovels looking for more bodies," said Gautam Rimal, assistant chief district officer in the area where Langtang is located.

It was not clear how many people were in Langtang at the time of the avalanche but other officials said about 120 more people could be buried under the avalanche.

Mr Patek said he and his family had registered Mr White as missing in Nepal with Australian authorities immediately after the earthquake occurred. But he and his family had still not received one phone call from authorities in Australia, Mr Patek said.

He said Brett had called an Australian consular official in Nepal, and was told the consulate could offer him a tent, a sleeping bag and the phone numbers of two recommended trekkers if he travelled there.

"Not one person in any authority in Australia has picked up the phone to his mum and dad or me, not one," Mr Patek said.

"At least one person could have guided us through this. I don't expect a call from the Prime Minister, but at least a call from someone saying: 'We're on it'."

Worsening the stress for the family, Mr Patek said, was the fact that authorities in Nepal had begun asking foreign teams to wrap up some operations, as hope of finding people alive in the rubble in Langtang receded.

Rameshwor Dangal, an official at Nepal's home ministry, told Reuters on Monday: "They [search teams] can leave. If they are also specialists in clearing the rubble, they can stay."

A Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokeswoman said on Tuesday: "There are 1465 Australians, including permanent residents, in Nepal who have now been accounted for however, DFAT is gravely concerned for the welfare of an Australian who is currently unaccounted for in Nepal. Officials in Canberra and Nepal have been providing consular assistance to the man's family in Australia.

"We have deployed a team of Australian officials to travel to Langtang village, Mr White's last known location, to supplement the two Australian officials already in the region. We are liaising closely with Nepalese authorities and with officials from other countries, including the US, UK, Canada and Spain, to broaden and coordinate our ongoing efforts to confirm the welfare of the Australian man."

Mr Patek urged any Australians who had returned from Nepal and who had encountered Mr White in their travels, or who had any information about him, to contact authorities.

with Reuters
</text>