<url>
http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/international/2015-05-06/perth-everest-climber-describes-horrific-scene-after-nepal-earthquake-triggered-avalanches/1444232
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Perth Everest climber describes horrific scene after Nepal earthquake triggered avalanches
</headline>

<text>
Updated 7 May 2015, 13:10 AEST

A Perth woman has described the horrific scenes at the Mount Everest base camp in Nepal when the magnitude 7.9 earthquake hit on April 25, triggering a deadly avalanche.

Inside the storage tent after the earthquake and avalanche - equipment was left damaged and covered in snow. (Credit: ABC licensed)

A Perth woman has described the horrific scenes at the Mount Everest base camp when the magnitude 7.9 earthquake hit on April 25, triggering a deadly avalanche.

Margaret Watroba is an inveterate mountaineer and has climbed the world's highest peak from both sides. She was in Nepal for another climb when the deadly disaster hit.

At least 18 climbers were killed.

"The camp looked like a bomb had gone through it," Ms Watroba told 720 ABC Perth.

I have never been so terrified. You have no control and the most stable thing, the earth, is moving under your feet, everything is moving. Margaret Watroba, earthquake survivor

Ms Watroba said she was in her tent alone when the earthquake struck and the earth began to shake.

"I saw this huge black cloud coming towards me," she said.

"I only had time to grab my down jacket and a beanie and I didn't have time to run to the bigger tent so I just went behind my little tent.

"The big falls of snow were falling on me.

"I opened my eyes and I thought, 'that's it, I am going to be suffocated in here'.

"It was 90 seconds but it was like an eternity.

"When it stopped other people from my team who had been in the bigger tent started to shout out for everybody.

"I managed to stand up, covered in snow."

Her group was fortunate to escape major injuries, but shortly afterwards, people began to pour in from the upper part of the camp with serious injuries.

Ms Watroba said some were carried on stretchers, others helped by other climbers.

"Everybody tried to help, especially medical people," she said.

"We tried to put them on helicopters, but there were only three available because of course, there were rescues all over Nepal.

"Then we had to dig out the bodies, dig them out, wrap them, try to identify them - that was a horrific experience.

"At the camp during the night and early in the morning it is very cold but during the day it is warm so the bodies had to be kept in the snow as they were decomposing very quickly."

Throughout the following days, smaller avalanches continued to fall at the camp, further frightening the teams.

"I have never been so terrified," Ms Watroba said.

"You have no control and the most stable thing, the earth, is moving under your feet, everything is moving.

"For the next five days, each time there was an avalanche everybody, including the Sherpas, was running out of their tents.

"I have been many times to Everest base camp and I never worried about avalanches, and it was just really horrific."

Ms Watroba has now travelled to the capital of Kathmandu, and will return to Perth at the end of the week.
</text>