<url>
http://www.goldcoastbulletin.com.au/coast-musician-survives-nepal-earthquake-chaos/story-fnj94hf2-1227322154768
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Coast musician survives Nepal earthquake chaos
</headline>

<text>
THE friends and family of popular local musician Jackson Smith had a nail-bitting wait yesterday after news broke of a devastating earthquake in the area of Nepal where he was travelling.

SHOCKING PHOTOS SHOW SCALE OF DISASTER

FEARS FOR AUSSIES MISSING IN NEPALESE EARTHQUAKE

Carrara’s Mr Smith was midway through the trip of a lifetime in South Asia when the worst earthquake in 80 years hit near Kathmandu, killing more than 1900 people and flattening ­sections of the city’s historic centre.

The quake also set off avalanches around Mt Everest, killing 17 climbers. By yesterday afternoon, 200 Australian travellers were accounted for – but 349 were still missing.

Mr Smith’s parents listed him as missing on the Red Cross Nepal Earthquake Restoring Family Links page until he called a few hours later to say he was alive and well.

His friend and business manager Emily Hoskins described the phone call as “the best news you can get”.

“I knew he was in the area, so I was worried,” she said, after explaining Mr Smith had been travelling since he left for India in early March.

media_camera Damaged roads are seen after an earthquake on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday.

“He was going where the wind took him on this trip, so we were not sure exactly where he was.”

Ms Hoskins said Mr Smith was in Nepal on a spiritual journey, so the disaster would really test him. His most recent Facebook post last week details a 10-day motorbike trip in Nepal, when he crashed his bike and was injured.

Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said there were no reports of any Australian deaths yet, and efforts were being made to track down those who had still not been in contact.

media_camera A man cries during the funeral of his sister, a victim of Saturday’s earthquake, at the Pashupatinath temple, on the banks of Bagmati river, in Kathmandu on Sunday.

Ms Bishop said officials from the Australian Embassy in Kathmandu were working under “challenging conditions to locate all those in the ­country”.

She said DFAT had opened its Emergency Call Unit and updated the travel advice for Nepal, noting disruptions to telecommunications, transport and tourist infrastructure.

Australians in Nepal have been urged to follow the instructions of local authorities.

Ms Bishop asked Australians worried about family and friends to continue to try to contact them directly.

“If unable to do so, they should call the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 6261-3305 or, within Australia, on 1300 555 135 (local call cost),’’ she said.

Nepal continued to be rocked by strong aftershocks yesterday, including a 6.7 magnitude monster.

The Australian Government has provided a $5 million assistance package, comprising $2.5 million for Australian charities, $2 million for United Nations partners, and $500,000 for the Australian Red Cross, which is seeking to reconnect missing people with their families.
</text>