<url>
http://www.dailycamera.com/get-out/ci_28054905/shadow-everest-real-tragedy-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
In the shadow of Everest: The real tragedy of the Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Americans Charley Mace and Brent Bishop navigate the chaos of the upper Khumbu Icefall on Mount Everest in 2012. The recent earthquake triggered avalanches that obliterated the path through the icefall. ( Jake Norton / mountainworldproductions.com )

How to help • The Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund: life.indiegogo.com/fundraisers/nepal-earthquake-relief-fund/x/10700542 • MSF/Doctors without Borders: www.msf.org/donate • Ten nonprofits for Nepal recommended by Outside magazine: www.outsideonline.com/1972776/nepal-earthquake-how-help

"I am extremely lucky to be alive," wrote American alpinist Colin Haley on his first — and eagerly anticipated — Facebook post since the massive earthquake in Nepal two weekends ago.

"Most of the villagers in Kjianjing Gompa lost their homes, their livelihood, and 80 percent of their family members in the span of about two minutes."

Haley was two weeks into a climbing trip near Mount Everest when he was injured and nearly killed in the quake.

"I feel as though I overdosed on adrenaline every couple hours for three straight days," he wrote April 30, describing how he first struggled for his own safety, then helped local Nepalis however possible. (His brother, Booth, told me Colin refused helicopter evacuation until the locals were rescued).

"My impression," he wrote, "is that the scope of damage, death and injury near Mount Everest is minor in comparison to other areas, and only widely known because it is a place of big business and wealthy tourists."

Advertisement

In fact, 20 people died on Mount Everest; more than 7,000 (and counting) have died in the rest of Nepal.

For two years in a row we've seen tragedies on and around the world's tallest mountain that make climbing it seem utterly pointless.

"In the coming days, Everest rescuers will face a serious shortage of resources as the country tries to dig out," wrote Grayson Shaffer on April 25, the day of the earthquake, for Outside Online. "And as with last year's avalanche, which killed 16 local workers, the idea of continuing to climb after such a horrific tragedy is almost unthinkable."

Chris Weidner, Wicked Gravity

As if climbing isn't frivolous enough in the face of the destruction, Everest climbers received immediate attention from the limited number of helicopters available for rescues and relief operations all over Nepal. Within two days of the quake, more than 100 Everest climbers had been airlifted from Camps I and II, over the now-impassable Khumbu Icefall, to Basecamp. "Meanwhile," wrote Freddie Wilkinson on foreignpolicy.com, "for tens of thousands of Nepalis stuck in the country's rural regions, there were no offers of help coming at all."

Thankfully, most expeditions have cancelled their climbs, and some are even staying in Nepal to help out.

But why does it take a catastrophe for climbers — and everyone, really — to set aside our own agenda to help others? This is the real tragedy: that we're often blind to the needs of others until an earthquake opens our eyes. And even then, we live in, as Wilkinson writes, "a bubble of first-world service amid Nepal's infinite chaos."

There are always far more important things to do than climb a mountain. There is always good we could do with the resources we put toward trifles like climbing. Or a new pair of shoes. Or a three-dollar coffee.

"Even as we have been climbing their mountains, we've been living in a different world," concludes Wilkinson.

When Colin Haley's mom, Terrin, learned her son was alive, she wrote on his Facebook wall, "Hearing your voice the other night (via satellite phone) was one of the purest, happiest moments of my life."

If only we could offer Nepal's mothers that same moment; for their children who are starving, displaced or dying from lack of basic medical care.

The disaster in Nepal reaches far beyond climbing, earthquakes or the top of the Earth. It's an uncomfortable reminder that every single thing we do has a cost.

And everything we don't do has an even greater cost.

Contact Chris Weidner at cweidner8@gmail.com.
</text>