<url>
http://thejakartaglobe.beritasatu.com/news/indonesians-repatriated-nepal-wednesday/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Indonesians to Be Repatriated From Nepal Wednesday
</headline>

<text>
"But we have clearance for 7 a.m. [on Wednesday]," Iwan told Detik.com.

The jet will land at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport to take the Indonesians home. Those scheduled for repatriation were staying at a guest house in the capital on Tuesday.

TNI chief Gen. Moeldoko told reporters in Jakarta on Monday that the government has sent rescue teams and paramedics to Nepal to search for the six Indonesians still missing after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake late last month, which killed over 7,500 people. The government has also sought the help of a police forensics team and a hiking club.

Lalu Muhammad Iqbal, the Foreign Ministry’s director for consular and legal affairs, said that 31 Indonesian workers currently reside in Nepal, and that all but one, a woman named Parsiah Majudi, are accounted for.

Meanwhile, of 28 Indonesians in Nepal on holiday during the quake, five are still missing including three climbers, identified as Alma Parahita, Kadek Andana and Jeroen Hehuwat. The remaining two are Dewi Pancaringtyas Asih and Meliana Tamo Ina.

The Indonesian rescue teams on Tuesday met with their Nepali counterparts to coordinate a search effort in the village of Langtang in the foothills of the Himalayas, the last known location of the five missing Indonesian tourists.

The three climbers were planning to climb Mount Naya Kanga, some 150 kilometers west of Mount Everest and checked in at the Everest Guest House in Langtang, according to members of the Taruna Hiking Club, of which the three are members. Several THC climbers also assisted Tuesday's rescue efforts.

According to Foreign Ministry director Iqbal the guest house was buried in an avalanche when the quake hit, as were 50 other guest houses, lodges and hotels in the village, the gateway to Everest and the surrounding mountains.

Nepali police and local volunteers discovered over the weekend the bodies of about 100 trekkers and villagers in Langtang but predicted some 120 more could still be buried underneath the rubble and thick layers of snow. Among the bodies recovered were seven foreign tourists.

Iqbal said some of the Indonesian rescue team was asked to help identify the bodies, which have since been taken to the Tribhuvan University Hospital in Kathmandu, some 60 kilometers away from Langtang.

"The TU Hospital has posted pictures [of the deceased] which makes the identification process easier," the Indonesian official said. Another team was also sent to Buddhist temples around Langtang where hundreds of locals and tourists seek shelter or information.

"From information gathered from survivors and locals no one inside the Everest Guest House could have survived the avalanche including its owner and workers," Iqbal said.

Gautam Rimal, assistant chief district officer in the area where Langtang is located, said authorities had not made contact with Langtang for more 24 hours because of bad weather.

"We hope to send a rescue helicopter today to the area," he said on Tuesday. "We'll know the situation then."

The government has begun asking foreign teams to wrap up search and rescue operations as hopes of finding people alive in the rubble receded.

"They can leave. If they are also specialists in clearing the rubble, they can stay," Rameshwor Dangal, an official at Nepal's home ministry, told Reuters on Monday.

The death toll from the April 25 earthquake in the Himalayan nation has reached 7,557, the Nepali government said on Tuesday as more bodies were recovered.

Additional reporting from Reuters
</text>