<url>
http://registerguard.com/rg/news/local/33058560-75/vigil-recalls-earthquake-victims-eugene-council-oks-relief-funds.html.csp
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Vigil honors Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Yasha Bajracharya huddled with family members while trying to sleep in a cramped apartment just below their home.

On April 25, six days before the Oregon State University student was set to return home from a one-month trip to Kathmandu to visit family, a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck about 110 miles northwest of the Nepalese capital.

On Tuesday night, Bajracharya spoke about her unnerving experiences at a candlelight vigil at the Erb Memorial Union amphitheater on the University of Oregon campus. About 100 people gathered in remembrance of the quake’s victims and in support of its survivors.

Three UO students — two from Nepal and one whose parents live there — organized the vigil in conjunction with the Kathmandu/Eugene Sister Cities Committee.

“All of us felt that we vicariously went through the same thing as those in Nepal,” said Anjani Lama, one of the UO students born in Nepal. “We were in a helpless state of shock the first days after the earthquake.”

The committee is hoping to raise $100,000 for the relief effort in Nepal, said Sugam Singh, another event organizer from Nepal. Prior to the vigil, the group had raised $17,000.

But just hours before the vigil, the Eugene City Council voted 5-2 to donate $50,000 in city funds for disaster relief in Kathmandu.

The donation was first proposed last week by south Eugene Councilor Betty Taylor, but the council majority delayed making a decision on the request until Tuesday, mainly because Taylor’s proposal did not specify where the money would come from. Tuesday afternoon, city staff told councilors the $50,000 would come from city reserves.

City Manager Jon Ruiz will consult with Mayor Kitty Piercy to decide how to spend the money on earthquake recovery efforts.

Joining Taylor in voting for the donation were councilors Alan Zelenka, George Poling, Greg Evans and George Brown.

Voting against were councilors Mike Clark and Chris Pryor. Pryor unsuccessfully sought to break the payment in two, with $25,000 to be sent immediately and the rest later, after other earthquake-related needs are identified.

Councilor Claire Syrett was absent.

Meanwhile, a portion of the money being raised by the Sister Cities Committee will go to Springfield physician Binaya Rimal, who was born in Nepal. Rimal will travel to Nepal on Thursday to help with the medical relief efforts there.

At Tuesday’s vigil, Rimal said he will travel to the site of the quake’s epicenter in the village of Barpak, to relieve some of the doctors who have been working day and night. He also said he plans to donate medical supplies to quake-damaged hospitals.

Bajracharya said she and her family were on their way home from a vacation in Pokhara, Nepal, not far from the epicenter, when the quake struck.

Ironically, she did not feel the earth’s rumbles as she was riding in a Jeep on a bumpy road near a village.

“The only time I knew something was wrong was when villagers came screaming out of their houses,” Bajracharya said.

When she and her family finally arrived home, they found their apartment intact, but opted to stay in their neighbor’s apartment downstairs as a precaution against aftershocks — one of which struck with a 6.6 magnitude.

Though they were short on food, their neighbors still fed them.

“Despite suffering hardships,” Bajracharya said, “the Nepalese never failed to lend a helping hand.”

Follow Jack on Twitter @JackTHeffernan . Email jack.heffernan@registerguard.com . Follow Ed on Twitter @edwardrusso . Email ed.russo@registerguard.com .
</text>