<url>
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/06/world/asia/high-in-the-himalayas-a-search-after-the-nepal-quake-yields-grim-results.html
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
High in the Himalayas, a Search After the Nepal Quake Yields Grim Results
</headline>

<text>
About two dozen neighbors who had been digging with their hands through nearby piles of bricks and stone and wood paused. Farmers who had been ferrying haystack after haystack on their backs, up and down the hills, stopped working to join a 30-minute funeral procession. They carried the man’s makeshift wooden coffin up the mountain to a small cemetery of stone tombs above the village where they burned incense, scattered flowers, said prayers and rested from the digging.

In the capital, Kathmandu, the military and international relief organizations have established aid centers and have begun the difficult task of assessing the damage. The government has tallied the dead — more than 7,000 nationwide.

Photo

But in remote villages like Barpak many are still missing, and the extent of the damage in areas difficult to reach in the best of times remains unknown.

Here in Barpak, a rich agricultural life built on a mountainside plateau has been erased. About 1,200 of the village’s 1,450 buildings are gone or so severely damaged that they might as well be.

The village was built on the mountain, from the mountain, with most residents building their homes from slabs of heavy stone scraped its sides. But the local stone proved far more vulnerable during the earthquake than fabricated concrete. Wood and stone buildings crumbled easily, collapsing and blanketing the village and its inhabitants in debris. Houses made of concrete largely withstood the earthquake.

The Indian military has provided support to about 60 Nepalese soldiers, coordinating aid from a temporary command post here. They have transported emergency food aid — 60-pound bags of rice, beans and dry goods — by helicopter, but it is barely enough, residents here say. And there is no way to get heavy machinery or construction materials here to provide safe temporary shelter, not to mention to begin rebuilding.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some families have salvaged corrugated metal sheets from the rooftops to build temporary shelters. They drape the blue and orange plastic sheets dropped by the Nepalese and Indian armies to create tents. The colors of the tarpaulins signal to the air forces overhead that the village has received its allotted aid — for now.

I accompanied the villagers up the mountainside, through the late afternoon chill, as they buried the body of Mr. Gurung.

As the sun began to set behind a mountain on the western side of the valley, the villagers escorted the grieving mother down the hillside trail to the village, where we would all spend the night in tents.

Villagers are afraid to stay in the few buildings that still stand; when the dogs start barking and the earth starts shaking, they, too, can come crashing down.
</text>