<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/earthquake-nepal-tibet-china-death-toll-homes-damaged/1/432172.html
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
In Tibet, at least 12 killed, homes damaged after quake
</headline>

<text>
At least 12 people were reported killed and many injured in Tibet following a 5.9-magnitude earthquake that struck the region around three hours after the Nepal earthquake was reported.

The 5.9-magnitude quake struck Dingri county, in southwestern Tibet, at 2.47 pm IST, the China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC) reported.

Chinese State media said the county, as well as areas near the city of Shigatse, had suffered "extensive" damage. Photographs showed landslides had damaged roads, blocking access to several areas. Communications had been cut off in several counties.

The People's Liberation Army had dispatched more than 300 personnel from Shigatse and had rescued more than 100 people in the area, the PLA Daily reported.

The Chinese government said it had put in place an emergency response in Tibet, and the Ministry of Public Security had dispatched 224 local firefighters to quake-hit zones with life detecting devices and wrecking machines, the official Xinhua news agency reported.

As many as 3,200 firefighters and 87 sniffer dogs were also readied, Xinhua said.

The Tibet quake was reported around three hours after the 7.9-magnitude quake struck Nepal, which was felt in much of Tibet and as far away as Lhasa.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Saturday said its international rescue teams would leave for Nepal on Sunday morning, and emergency relief supplies would be sent to Nepal soon. It also expressed condolences to those affected in India, Bhutan and Bangladesh and said it was "willing to provide assistance".

Was Nepal earthquake actually 8.1 magnitude?



The devastating earthquake that struck Nepal may have been even stronger than the 7.9-magnitude reported by the United States Geological Survey, according to Chinese authorities.

The China Earthquake Networks Centre recorded the earthquake as 8.1-magnitude, the agency posted on its website.

The CENC recorded three separate earthquakes on Saturday within three hours, with the first reported in Nepal at 11.41 am IST measuring 8.1 magnitude, recording a slightly differing reading than the 7.9 reported by the U.S. Geological Survey.

The CENC said the second quake that struck Nepal 34 minutes later was of 7 magnitude, while a separate third 5.9 earthquake was reported in Tibet around three hours later, causing extensive damage in southwestern counties in Tibet, bringing down homes, causing landslides and disrupting communications.
</text>