<url>
http://www.asianews.it/news-en/UN:-Epidemic-emergency-in-Nepal,-1.7-million-children-at-risk-34164.html
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
NEPAL UN: Epidemic emergency in Nepal, 1.7 million children at risk
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu (AsiaNews) - After fear and devastation, now in Nepal has to contain the outbreak of epidemics, particularly among 1.7 million children earthquake victims who have not yet received aid.

The warning comes from the United Nations, the European Union and other international organizations, who have called on the government to set up "adequate shelter" before the start of the monsoon season.

Two days ago, the Nepalese authorities invited foreign teams and volunteers to leave the country. The death toll from the earthquake of April 25 has risen to 7,611 dead.

Valerie Amos, UN under-secretary general for humanitarian affairs, said: "I am aware of the urgent need to provide emergency shelter, basic goods and services to those affected, since the monsoon season is rapidly approaching" .

Christos Stylianides, EU Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management, added: "The government should take serious precautions before the rains bring epidemics with tem".

According to the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international agencies, more than half a million children at risk of contracting measles, a very contagious and potentially deadly disease. The fear is that it can spread quickly, given the conditions of the camps set up so far: overcrowded, with limited resources and full of children.

Together with WHO, the Nepalese Ministry of Health and Population has already launched a campaign to vaccinate children under five living in the camps of the three districts of Kathmandu valley. In the coming weeks it will spread to the other 12 districts most affected by the earthquake.

The lack of shelter and poor sanitary conditions are huge risk factors, whereas people who leave their homes continues to rise. Many sleep in the open, near the rubble of their home. According to data prior to the earthquake, about one in 10 children in Nepal is not vaccinated against measles.

Besides launching immunization campaigns, international agencies stress the need to provide clean water and sanitation. Meanwhile, the government has banned the sale of meat in the valley of Kathmandu, as a form of prevention of further outbreaks.

The authorities fear the bodies not yet recovered from under the rubble can transmit diseases
</text>