<url>
http://www.theguardian.com.au/story/3058483/nepal-earthquake-threatens-decades-of-progress-ngo/?cs=4172
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake threatens decades of progress: NGO
</headline>

<text>
The destruction caused by the Nepal earthquake has put at risk decades of progress made in health and other development indicators by the country.

Nepal earthquake threatens decades of progress: NGO A young girl caresses her mother's nose in a temple in Kathmandu, Nepal on Monday. Photo: David Ramos

An earthquake survivor visits her collapsed house in Sankhu, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal on Tuesday. Photo: Athit Perawongmetha

Earthquake survivors eat breakfast in a makeshift shelter in Sankhu, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, Nepal, on Tuesday. Photo: Athit Perawongmetha Tweet Facebook of ╳ exit

The Nepal earthquake has put at risk decades of progress in health and other development indicators made by the Himalayan nation.

As about 100 bodies were recovered on the weekend at Langtang village, 60 km north of Kathmandu, on a trekking route popular with Westerners, aid agency Save the Children said widespread damage to community infrastructure caused by the quake has put Nepal's social and economic development in jeopardy.

"The sheer scale of the disaster is putting at risk the strong progress Nepal has made in recent years," said Sarah Ireland, the agency's humanitarian advocacy manager in Nepal.

"Should the humanitarian response falter for lack of funds or any other reason, it threatens to reverse decades of progress improving the lives of Nepalese families and communities, and especially for mothers and children."

Save the Children's annual State of the World's Mothers Index, which rates the wellbeing of mothers in 179 nations, shows Nepal's rank has risen from 121 to 114 in the past two years. The report, released on Tuesday, says Nepal's under-five mortality rate fell to 39.7 deaths for every 1000 live births in 2013, down from 51 deaths in 2008. Since 1996 the under-five mortality rate for the urban poorest 20 per cent in Nepal has more than halved.

However the magnitude 7.8 earthquake, which killed more than 7500 people and affected more than 8 million, has wiped out entire villages and destroyed a vast amount of infrastructure. Ms Ireland said the impacts of the disaster would be felt for many years to come.

The Nepalese government has begun asking foreign teams to wrap up search and rescue operations as hopes of finding people alive in the rubble receded.

"They can leave. If they are also specialists in clearing the rubble, they can stay," Rameshwor Dangal, an official at Nepal's home ministry, told Reuters on Monday.

Aid agencies estimate that between 50 and 70 per cent of community health facilities have been destroyed in affected regions.

"To make matters worse, the monsoon season is coming and hundreds of thousands of people are homeless. With the rains will come and increased risk of disease outbreaks," Ms Ireland said.

"In remote areas, this is a huge issue because the nearest functioning health facility could be several days' walk away.

"Community-level health facilities form the backbone of Nepal's public health system, providing people in the most remote communities with access to basic health services and medicines. The earthquake has ripped this system apart. In many cases the workers are still there, but the infrastructure has been destroyed and medicines lost."

Rebuilding basic infrastructure will be difficult for Nepal, one of the poorest countries in Asia.

The State of the World's Mother's Index ranked Somalia the worst place to be a mother. Each of the 10 lowest-ranked nations was in Africa, apart from Haiti, which was ranked equal 169th.

Australia was ranked the 9th-best country to be a mother. It has been in the top 10 for 16 years running. The top-ranked country was Norway.

with Reuters

Follow FairfaxForeign on Twitter

The story Nepal earthquake threatens decades of progress: NGO first appeared on The Sydney Morning Herald.
</text>