<url>
http://judgybitch.com/2015/05/06/nepal-a-tragic-reminder-of-the-importance-of-men/
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Nepal: a tragic reminder of the importance of men
</headline>

<text>
I’d like to thank Robert Franklin for pointing me towards this article about the devastating effects of Nepal’s mass migration of men. Nepal has been shedding young men since 2006, with the majority going to Malaysia, Indonesia, the Gulf states and even India to earn money they repatriate home.

The scale of the economic migration from Nepal has amazed development economists for many years. The Maoist insurgency that racked the country for 10 years ended in 2006, but the economy never recovered afterward. Today, manufacturing contributes only 6 percent of the country’s gross domestic product, and in some areas, electricity is available for no more than 10 hours a day. The earthquake will make things much harder for the country’s poorest people, especially in rural areas where most Nepalis live.

The recent earthquake compounded the devastation for Nepal, as one of the hardest hit areas was Gongabu, a section that housed young men waiting to leave Nepal for work in foreign lands. The New York Times articles is remarkable in that it acknowledges the true impact the loss of their young men will have on Nepalese society. The saying “there are no atheists in foxholes” might be paraphrased as “there are no feminists when disaster strikes”. Neither the Times reporter nor the Nepalese themselves pretend that women are going to be able to rebuild Nepal.

The absence of young men has been keenly felt over the last week, as those left alive in isolated villages dug with their hands trying to free survivors. Many of the children caught up in the earthquake’s destruction were already growing up without fathers at home. Frail older people have been left to manage the aftermath on their own. And economists say that unless the government acts swiftly to create work opportunities at home, the exodus of young people will accelerate after the relief operation ends, permanently handicapping the country’s ability to rebuild.

Note that the exodus is of young “people”, when the exodus is actually of men. The article begins by noting “the bodies were all coming from Gongabu, a common stopover for Nepali migrant workers headed overseas, and they were all of young men.”

Related:

A bomb goes off in Boston and shows America why we need men

Boston, part two. For all the boys who weren’t in blue

When the world goes to hell, it’s men who die to save others. Remembering the first responders of 9/11

Despite the terrible blow both economic conditions and the earthquake dealt to men, canvassing pictures of the rescue operations reveals the same thing we see whenever disaster strikes: it’s mostly men doing the rough work. Image after image after image shows the surviving men scrabbling through the rubble looking for survivors, tearing up the concrete with their bare hands.

I had to search long and hard to find images of women assisting with the rescue efforts. These two women, completely surrounded by men, are engaged in the race to find survivors.

Most of the other women I found are picking through their homes not to find bodies, but to retrieve their things. And fair enough. Cooking pots and food and blankets and clothing are going to be vital in the coming days, and they have children and elderly to care for, not to mention the men who must be physically near the breaking point.

What I like about the NYT article is that the Nepalese seem very aware of the vital role men play, and have no problem acknowledging it. There are no feminists in Nepal arguing that women can do anything men can do. Can they? If that’s true, then the only conclusion we can reach, based on the rescue operations, is that Nepalese women can but they won’t. And I don’t believe that for a second. I believe Nepali women are doing everything they can to care for the survivors, and when it comes to picking through concrete, they can’t do it the same way men can. Nepali women and society do not even pretend that the women are going to be able to rebuild the country.

“Somebody needs to plow the field, plant the rice. If these temporary migrants are given enough incentives to stay in the village, their first instinct would be to do that. But it has to be really fast.”

Nepal is lucky they have no institutional feminists to oppose a stimulus package that will go mostly to men who are the ones who do the work, unlike the US, where feminists succeeded in undermining an infrastructure project in which most proceeds would have accrued to men because they are the ones who do the work. Yes, feminists are that greedy, stupid and utterly lacking in foresight.

Related:

What would happen if no men showed up for work today?

The tragedy in Nepal has made it bracingly clear to the Nepalese just how much young men contribute and how much they are needed and valued. I suspect Nepal never forgot that. All too often in the West, at the explicit behest of feminism, we treat our young men as disposable, unreliable, inconvenient and worthless.

Until an earthquake hits.

And even then, I suspect feminists will whine that men are getting all the good opportunities to dig through the rubble. In a way, that will be a good thing. When rescuers hear the whining and the accusations of misogyny, they can simply move on to a more deserving person, and leave the feminists where they belong.

Choking in the dust.

Works for me.

Lots of love,

JB
</text>