<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3080275/Rescuers-battle-reach-survivors-second-deadly-Nepal-earthquake-thousands-sleep-outdoors-afraid-return-homes.html
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake rescuers battle to reach survivors of second quake
</headline>

<text>
Rescue teams from around the world have been sifting through fresh rubble and debris in a desperate attempt to find survivors of the second deadly quake to hit Nepal in weeks.

The 7.3-magnitude quake, which hit the beleaguered region on Tuesday, triggered further landslides and brought down many of the remaining buildings in the country, still reeling from a devastating quake that killed thousands last month.

Thousands of traumatised survivors spent the night outdoors, afraid to return to their houses following the most recent quake which struck during the aftermath of the first and deadliest quake in more than 80 years.

Scroll down for video

Search for survivors: A Mexican rescue team work in the debris left by a new earthquake of a magnitude-7.3 that killed scores more people in Nepal

Dozens of people were killed in the latest disaster, bringing the overall death toll to more than 8,200 and compounding the difficulty of reaching far-flung mountain communities in desperate need of shelter, food and clean water.

Sanjay Kumar has been living with his children under a tarpaulin sheet in Kathmandu since the original earthquake struck on April 25, fearing that a more destructive quake is on its way.

'If the earthquake had all come at once, it would have been OK, but these small quakes, the ones that keep coming, are really making my heart panic,' Kumar said. 'My children are scared too and don't want to go back. They want to stay here, out in the open.'

The United Nations said it faced a 'monumental challenge' to bring relief to victims, many of whom live in areas accessible only on foot or by helicopter, before the monsoon rains began.

UN resident coordinator Jamie McGoldrick said Tuesday's quake had exacerbated an already desperate situation as he delivered an urgent call for more funding.

Broken: A woman stands in front of her damaged house in Chautara village, Sindhupalchwok district, a day after another powerful earthquake struck Nepal

Wrecked: People stand and watch while others take photos of a collapsed six storey building at Sallaghari, in Bhaktapur district

Bloodied: A father cradles his injured daughter ash she sleeps at a shelter in Chautara village, Sindhupalchwok district

Homeless: A woman carries her young son in a sling with fallen buildings creating a mountain in the background in the Sindhupalchowk district

Haunting: Framed photos of children can still be seen on the wall of this house, devastated by the latest earthquake to hit Nepal

Hurt: An injured man lies waiting for treatment in Chautara village, Sindhupalchwok district, while other perch on rocks around him

Patched up: This woman is treated for head injuries at a medical relief camp while holding onto her young child

'Damaged houses will be further damaged. Houses and schools and buildings that were spared in the first one were probably affected yesterday. Roads, we know, have been damaged,' he said.

'It is extremely urgent that the donors realise that we are running against the monsoon that is coming.'

Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk, two of the districts worst affected by the original quake, bore the brunt of the damage caused by the fresh tremors.

The Red Cross said it had received reports of large-scale casualties in the town of Chautara in Sindhupalchowk, where its Norwegian branch is running a field hospital.

'Hundreds of people are pouring in. They are treating dozens for injuries and they have performed more than a dozen surgeries,' said spokeswoman Nichola Jones.

There were several reports of landslides in the worst-hit areas, making the task of getting relief to remote communities in the Himalayan country even more difficult.

Rare joy: Nepalese woman Mayatamang, 20, looks at her one-day-old baby girl outside a hospital, at an earthquake devastated area in Bhaktapur, Nepal

Bandaged: Nepalese soldiers carry an injured man on a stretcher at Kathmandu Airport the day after another massive quake rocked the area

Crushed: A boy walks past a building that has been devastated by the second earthquake in less than three weeks to hit the region

Help: A Nepalese soldier assists an injured person to walk at Kathmandu Airport, a day after another powerful earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, while a helicopter can be seen in the background

Survivor: A dog rests near damaged buildings in Patan, Nepal, by lying in front of wrecked buildings

Save the Children said the Gorkha region, near the epicentre of the first quake, had also been hit by landslides and many key roads were blocked.

'Although our personnel are already present in quake-hit areas, these blockages will make it difficult to transport relief materials,' said police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam.

Many in Kathmandu had begun to return to their homes after weeks sleeping outdoors, but after Tuesday's strong quake and tremors, large numbers once again spent the night under canvas.

'Yesterday's quake shook us all, I couldn't imagine sleeping in our house with the kids. But we haven't been able to sleep in the tents either,' said Kabita Maharjan, a 38-year-old mother of two young children.

BRITISH COUPLE WHO WENT TO HELP CAUGHT IN SECOND QUAKE Safe: Paul Metcalfe and Leila Khakbaz, pictured with with a young Nepalese girl, were caught in the second earthquake A couple who flew out to Nepal to help with the rescue efforts have been caught up in the latest devastating earthquake. Paul Metcalfe from Pembrokeshire and his partner Leila Mohseni from Vancouver flew out to Nepal last week, having spent most of 2015 in Nepal doing voluntary work. They raised £3,000 and took tents, medical supplies and food out to a village where they have a lot of close friends, and where 90% of the houses have been destroyed. Speaking from Nepal after the latest earthquake, Paul told the Western Telegraph: 'It was very frightening. Leila and I had just come out of a meeting with a local contact in which we discussed how we would distribute emergency building materials to local villages when the tremors hit. 'We were walking in a narrow alleyway in Thamel, the busy tourist hub of Kathmandu, when suddenly the sky filled with birds and then the ground shook violently and debris started tumbling from the five and six storey buildings that were around us.' They ran to an open area as they were scared a surrounding building could collapse on them. 'People here in Nepal are scared and saddened. They don't know when it will all end,' he said.

'It was shaking all night, how could we? My kids were terrified. Who knows what will happen now.'

Scientists said Tuesday's quake was part of a chain reaction set off by the larger one that struck on April 25 in Lamjung district west of Kathmandu.

'Large earthquakes are often followed by other quakes, sometimes as large as the initial one,' said Carmen Solana, a volcanologist at Britain's University of Portsmouth.

'This is because the movement produced by the first quake adds extra stress on other faults and destabilises them,' she told the London-based Science Media Centre.

Innocent: Young boys play with their dinner plates with joy on their faces, clearly oblivious to the carnage around them

Uncertain: A little girl clings to her mother's arm in a temporary shelter during food distribution at Tundikhel, in Kathmandu

Huge queues: Nepalese earthquake survivors line up during a food distribution in Kathmandu, after Tuesday's 7.3 magnitude quake

Hungry: A child latches onto their mother's face as they queue for food at a centre in Tundikhel, in Kathmandu

Devastated: A woman looks at what remains of her home which has collapsed in the Sindhupalchowk district, with pain etched across her face

Fallen: Women walk past a building which is perilously teetering in the Sindhupalchowk district in Nepal, following a second quake

It comes as charities warned the second quake had left already traumatised population gripped by even deeper fear, with concerns that the country is ill-prepared to cope with the mental side effects of the disaster.

Binda Dhungel, 31, and her injured son and daughter sat inside a health clinic in the mountain town of Charikot after they walked two hours from their village, which was devastated in the second quake.

'There's not really anyone back in the village. There's no one else there. I don't know how we're going to survive,' Dhungel said.

Tuesday's quake killed about 80 people, and destroyed many houses.

Krishna Prasad, 30, a doctor at the centre, says patients are frightened and worried they are not strong enough to go back. The children, he says, are medically fine but 'psychologically they look terrified'.

In towns and villages across the country the scene was the same - dazed families sitting by cracked or flattened homes, jumpy about seemingly endless aftershocks and landslides from loose hillsides, and uncertain of their future.

Ranveig Tveitnes, deputy team leader of the Norwegian Red Cross in Chautara, said the latest earthquake and subsequent aftershocks had pushed people back from a fragile recovery.

'When they first came, you could see people were dead in their eyes. In the last few days, people started to laugh again. But today people were completely traumatised. Patients grab you and hold you and they don't let go,' he said.

What remains: A woman carries what is left of her worldly goods on her back as she walks past houses destroyed by the earthquakes

Brave: A boy helps his mother start the daunting task of re-building their home from scratch in the Sindhupalchowk district

Small comforts: This Nepalese man carries his few belongings in an orange cloth while the second quake's catastrophic impact can be seen behind him

Rubble: What is left of large brick building is now nothing more than an obstacle on the streets in the Sindhupalchowk district

Shelter: This survivor looks to be deep in contemplation outside her tent at a centre in Kathmandu, where a second quake hit yesterday
</text>