<url>
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/48164/20150504/un-commends-chinas-medical-team-in-nepal.htm
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
UN Commends China's Medical Team in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Politics

UN Commends China's Medical Team in Nepal

The Chinese medical team that has been providing medical assistance in Nepal has caught the attention of the United Nations (UN).



According to UN Undersecretary General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Valerie Amo, the Chinese medical team in Nepal has been highly efficient in conducting medical operations.



Like Us on Facebook

Advertisement

"It was very reassuring to see the very high quality of work they've done. They have conducted a great deal of operations," Amo said.



Amo issued the statement after inspecting a tent hospital in Dhulikhel town, where a 58-member medical team from China has been providing assistance to quake victims.



On Sunday, a 70-member team from the Chinese military has arrived in Nepal to assist the earthquake-torn nation in disease prevention, as stench of death continues to threaten survivors with various diseases.



The Chinese military sent the team to Nepal upon the request of the Himalayan nation, which seeks to begin disease prevention work to avoid a possible outbreak, the official Xinhua news reported.



The military team beefs up the Chinese medical team that arrived earlier in Nepal to provide medical assistance to the victims of the huge earthquake that have so far resulted to the death of at least 7,300 people.



The Nepalese government also requested China to send in troops to help rehabilitate the main highway that connects Nepal and China.



China sent a team of its Armed Police Force Troops in response to Nepal's request, Hua said.



As of the last count, the number of fatalities of Nepal's April 25 massive earthquake rose to 7,365 with thousands more still missing.



Figures released by the UN showed that the earthquake affected the lives of 8 million Nepalese people. The country's population was around 28 million based on the latest census.



At least two million of those affected by the disaster currently need water, food, tents and medicines, the UN said.



Nepal has appealed to the international community to assist the earthquake-stricken nation not just in the search and rescue operation but in the rehabilitation efforts as well.



China was among those who first sent a team to Nepal via Kathmandu immediately after the earthquake rocked the Himalayan nation.



Advertisement

©2017 Chinatopix All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission
</text>