<url>
http://directory.ucanews.com/news/caritas-raises-3-million-euros-for-nepal-quake-victims/2197
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Caritas raises 3 million euros for Nepal quake victims
</headline>

<text>
A Nepalese policeman guards a collapsed building in Kathmandu - EPA

As the official death toll from the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal five days ago reaches more than 5000, Caritas Internationalis has rallied a record solidarity response for the victims.

The April 25 disaster also injured more than 10,000 people and rendered thousands more homeless.

The U.N. says the quake has affected 8.1 million people - more than a fourth of Nepal’s population - and that 1.4 million are in need of food assistance.

Caritas Internationalis Secretary General, Michel Roy said the sheer magnitude of the earthquake brings with it major consequences.

The 32 million population of Nepal is a poor one.Roy said that at the moment many are faced with the simple issue of survival “it’s cold, it’s raining, the monsoons are arriving, and the worst affected communities urgently need shelter, food and drinking water.

Roads, infrastructure and communication lines in the mountainous valleys of Nepal posed significant challenges in access and coordination long before the earthquake struck.

Kathmandu has one small airport which can only receive a limited number of planes so most aid is coming in by road from India, said Roy.

Caritas Nepal meanwhile has received overwhelming support from the international Caritas network, with Caritas organisations around the world supporting the response with personnel and resources.

Roy said,“There are some strong members of the Caritas family in the region, such as Caritas Bangladesh, Caritas Pakistan and Caritas India who are well trained and used to dealing with natural disasters like floods and typhoons.”

“They have competent teams that they can make available to Caritas Nepal,” he said.

Roy said Caritas has been flooded with donations and solidarity from across the globe.

He said it was amazing: “It came from neighboring countries first – including collections of money – but also from much further, from Latin America …we’ve received pledges and funds from the Balkans – from Croatia that usually does not develop a lot of international solidarity action, we’ve received money from Taiwan…”

Donations are continuing to flow in to all Caritas agencies to support the earthquake emergency response “reaching over 3 million euros, which is rare in so few days”.

Roy said the money Caritas is raising will be used mainly for reconstruction and long term projects.

“Depending on the amount of money collected it will probably be a five-year programme,” he added.

This support will be vital with an estimated 8 million people affected by the earthquake across 39 Nepalese districts.

Source: Vatican Radio
</text>