<url>
http://www.ucanews.com/news/boy-pulled-from-nepal-earthquake-rubble-reflects-on-fate/73506
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Boy pulled from Nepal earthquake rubble reflects on fate
</headline>

<text>
Fifteen-year-old Pemba Tamang Lama couldn’t be more thankful that he is getting a second chance to live.

Lama made headlines when he was pulled from the debris of a five-story guesthouse 120 hours after a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit Nepal on April 25.

“I was in a room in the ground floor of the building when the earthquake came. Everything came crushing down in seconds and I did not even have time to realize what was happening,” Lama told ucanews.com on Saturday, before leaving the Military Hospital in Kathmandu.

"I survived such a difficult, impossible situation. This proves that God is watching there above us. Who has to survive, will survive,” said Lama, who is Hindu.

Lama, who worked in the guesthouse as a tourist guide, found himself trapped in the debris of the hotel and the adjoining four buildings in New Bus Park area of Kathmandu after the quake.

He was pulled from the rubble by the Nepal Armed Police Force in a seven-hour operation on April 30.

Days after his ordeal, the shock remains visible. His big brown eyes and an expressionless face tell the story of five fateful days.

“I never thought I would survive. I was thinking of my parents and friends in the last moments. Now I am safely back with my family but I still think of the time I was inside the rubble … it is scary,” he said.

Lama, who does not want to return to Kathmandu, said he survived on two boxes of ghee (clarified butter) he found lying in the debris.

“I had no option but to eat that. I used to eat the butter and vomit…. This went on for [five] days,” Lama said.

The teenager, who is from the Nuwakot district of Nepal, cried for help when he heard the rescue personnel digging nearby. After hearing his cries, the team located Lama in the debris and provided him with juice and drinking water before taking him out.

In spite of the lengthy entrapment, Lama sustained only minor injuries on his head, arm and leg. He was discharged from the hospital May 2 after doctors declared him fit to go home.

The teenager said that there were six or seven others with him in the guesthouse when the earthquake struck. “I don’t know what happened to them,” he added.

For Lama’s family, it is beyond imagination that he has survived.

“I had left everything to God. Now that he has survived, we could not have asked for more,” Tamang Lama, his father, told ucanews.com.

Tamang, who is a taxi driver, said his son ran away from home a few years back to work in Kathmandu. “Now I am not going to let him go anywhere,” he said.

“When everything was going bad, this is the ray of hope that God has shown us. I am at a loss of words at the happiness that we have got,” he added.

Several others have been rescued in recent days, including a 24-year-old woman found alive May 1, five-and-a-half days after the quake. The woman, identified as Krishna Kumari Khadka, was rescued by a joint team of Nepal, Israel and Norway personnel after a nine-hour operation.

Police also pulled three women alive from under rubble on Sunday in Sindhupalchowk, one of the worst-hit districts, although it was not immediately clear how long they had been trapped.

The 7.8-magnitude quake wreaked a trail of death and destruction, reducing much of the capital Kathmandu to rubble and triggering a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.

In the worst-hit districts of Gorkha and Sindhupalchowk, almost 90 percent of the mostly stone and mud homes have been destroyed, the United Nations said in its latest situation report.

The earthquake has claimed at least 7,200 lives, and the government warned Sunday the death toll will climb "much higher".

Additional reporting by AFP
</text>