<url>
http://www.news-mail.com.au/news/chetana-thapa-recalls-the-heartbreak-of-being-unab/2627709/
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal needs your help
</headline>

<text>
EARTHQUAKE DEVASTATION: Chetana Thapa is concerned about her family in Nepal. Photo: Mike Knott / NewsMail

EARTHQUAKE DEVASTATION: Chetana Thapa is concerned about her family in Nepal. Photo: Mike Knott / NewsMail Mike Knott

CHETANA Thapa recalls the heartbreak of being unable to contact her family after the earthquake in Nepal, of sitting alone with her baby as tears poured down her face.

"My brother called me when the earthquake happened and he said, 'Please don't worry, we are alright', and then the line cut off," she said.

Ms Thapa was then unable to get in contact with any of her family for the next six hours.

"I could see all these horrible pictures in all the news and I couldn't contact my family, I couldn't contact my in-laws, anyone," she said.

"It scared me to death, I felt like I couldn't even breathe, I started crying, I was alone with my baby at home, it was horrible, so many bad things came into my mind."

Ms Thapa said the hours that followed were some of the hardest, but she felt overwhelming relief when the confirmation came that her family, while shaken and displaced, was alive.

"My dad, he was so shaken up, he felt like he couldn't breathe, they couldn't even stand up," she said.

"After the earthquake he went into a panic attack and then he started vomiting. It's horrible, I don't even want to remember."

Ms Thapa said her mother told her she spent the ordeal praying for safety.

"My mother said she couldn't even keep her eyes open because everything was shaking so much," she said.

"She said she closed her eyes and just remembered God."

As the days progressed and the death toll spiralled, Ms Thapa said the Bundaberg Nepalese community sought each other out and gathered together.

"Until now, so many Nepalese people were here in Bundaberg, but we didn't have a community association," she said.

"So we actually formed that association and it's already been registered now.

"In disasters like this, it just made us feel like we need an organisation."

The Bundaberg Nepalese Community has now created an account with Red Cross at Auswide Bank for donations to support Nepal.

"The community there is all shaken up. Some people have lost everything," she said.

"One of my friend's nephews, he was just seven years old and he lost his life, he was buried inside the rubble."

As Ms Thapas family and thousands more continue to live outside in makeshift tents, too fearful to return to their homes and many without a home to return to, she said any help would be appreciated.

"To be honest, it's not even a tent, it's a very temporary plastic kind of a thing that they put up on a tree," she said.

"There are at least four families under each of them, and the worst of it is, it's been raining and that doesn't help at all with little children.

"My nephew is what, four months old, and living like that. It's really scary and at the same time they're getting aftershock after aftershock. It's been really, really scary for them."

Help rebuild Nepal by donating to any of the charities below

Red Cross Nepal Region Earthquake Appeal

Visit: www.redcross.org.au or call 1800 811 700

UNISEF Nepal Earthquake

Visit: www.unicef.org.au/Nepal-Earthquake

Care Australia

Visit: https://www.care.org.au/appeals/nepal-earthquake/

World vision

Visit: www.worldvision.com.au/Nepal-Earthquake

‎
</text>