<url>
http://www.elevenmyanmar.com/politics/press-being-gagged-suu-kyi
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Press being gagged: Suu Kyi
</headline>

<text>
Myanmar has a lot of work to do achieve press freedom, according to Aung San Suu Kyi, the chairperson of Parliament’s Rule of Law, Peace and Stability Committee.



She was speaking to mark World Press Freedom Day at the Novotel Hotel in Yangon on May 3. Minister for the President’s Office Ye Htut and Lower House MP Khine Maung Yi, from Parliament’s information committee attended the event.



Suu Kyi said the reason she accepting the invitation was that she wanted to see if Ye Htut “was good”. She said she had learned that he tended to be good as he was afraid of her.



“I have an idea for press freedom. If I speak it in English, it is freedom. If I interpret it in Myanmar, is it freedom or lack of restrictions? Which one is right? Putting pressure on someone to write something should be taken into consideration. Ye Htut outlined the difference between ‘press freedom’ and ‘editorial independence’. I think these two phrases are the same. This is why it is freedom for all. If media owners control the editors, there will be no freedom,” Suu Kyi said.



“I express sympathy for all the families of the Nepal’s earthquake victims. The media gives great support with its coverage on Nepal. Foreign organisations and governments measure the development level of a country through the press freedom.



“The democratic reforms of Myanmar are measured by press freedom as well. Recently, Myanmar was put ninth among the 10 countries with the least press freedom. Therefore we have much left to push for to gain press freedom,” Suu Kyi said.



“Our freedom of the press comes too late. Press freedom in our country appears after the time when it is possible to stably build it. Press freedom is prevailing in the country to some degree when social media is widely used. It is a little late to build prestigious press ethics. All of us must try harder than before.



“Some reporters don’t do homework. They know nothing about their questions, the country and our political affairs. Some reporters who did their homework thoroughly are clever in raising questions. Answering those questions is interesting and useful to me. Sometimes their questions helped me to think. Young reporters should try to be like this. Excellent journalists can influence the world,” Suu Kyi said.



“We work in Parliament for the emergence of good laws for the media. The legislature’s duty is to ensure the effective practice of the laws. Let me remind the minister that the executive is responsible for producing laws. The executive influences the judiciary.



“I would like journalists to take notice and encourage the constitutional amendments. This year’s election is more important than the 2010 election. The media should help make the election as free and fair as possible. Our democratic path is being blocked. The media needs to open it. Truth must be sought,” said Suu Kyi.
</text>