<url>
http://www.themaneater.com/stories/2015/5/4/memorial-service-held-speakers-circle-remembrance-/
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Memorial service held at Speakers Circle in remembrance of the Nepal Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
More than 500 candles were placed in Speakers Circle with the signs “MU Loves Nepal,” “Stay Strong Nepal” and the Nepalese national flag during the memorial service on May 1 to raise awareness of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal, which currently leaves more than 7,000 dead and 14,000 injured.

Among the 50 participants were students from the MU Nepalese Student Association, Nepalese elementary and middle school students with their parents and non-Nepalese MU students.

The service started as each participant began lighting the candles as others formed a circle around in silence.

Once all candles were lit, the president of Nepalese Student Association, Saroj Dhital, encouraged all participants to take a moment of silence in remembrance of people in Nepal.

After, Dhital recited his memorial script.

“Today, through this candlelight vigil we express, our solidarity with the victims and send our thoughts and prayers to them,” he said during the reading.

He encouraged people to remember those who are suffering from the earthquake and to help reconstruct Nepal with small contributions for this “noble cause.”

He wishes to collect at least $10,000 to send overseas, noting that a dollar bill can purchase ten packets of ramen noodles.

He said because it is not possible to help physically rebuild Nepal themselves, the easiest way to contribute is by donating money to organizations that are currently in Nepal rebuilding.

He knows some Nepalese students whose family’s houses were demolished and who have relatives who were killed by the earthquake.

His own family is also undergoing a tough time.

“My parents went (through) pretty hard time(s) when they tried to get back home,” he said.

Raji Dhital, an employee at Callaway Medical Center and a Nepal native, when asked to describe how she feels when thinking of the earthquake in Nepal, she said she can hardly describe her feeling because the situation in Nepal is pitiable.

“They are getting aftershocks,” Dhital said. “Everyone is on the street. Even if families do have their houses and even for those who do not, they still cannot go back to their houses because of aftershocks.”

Soma Bhandari, an 80-year-old who has lived her entire life in Nepal, expressed her sorrow when thinking of people struggling after the earthquake.

“I feel very sad and wish their safety,” Bhandari said in her native language as a young woman translated for her.

The Nepal earthquake occurred April 25 and is recorded to be Nepal’s worst natural disaster in 80 years. The United Nations reported about 8 million people have been affected by the earthquake, which is more than a quarter of the population. Also, 2.8 million Nepalese have been displaced and more than 4.2 million people are waiting for food assistance.

The MU Nepalese Student Association has been inactive until the earthquake occurred. After the earthquake, Saroj Dhital decided to reactivate the association to find a way to help his nation.

In his closing statement during the reading, he said, “Your little contribution can save the lives of many.”
</text>