<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3066643/India-tightens-border-security-protect-Nepal-s-women-children-traffickers.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
India tightens border security to protect Nepal's women and children from traffickers
</headline>

<text>
With deaths in the thousands and many more believed to be buried under the rubble following the deadly April 25 earthquake in Nepal, the Himalayan nation will take a long time before it is able to stand up.

Meanwhile, as hundreds still search for their loved ones, there is fear among the security agencies in India that women and children in Nepal could fall prey to traffickers.

Nepal has been the hub for human trafficking for a very long time, and unscrupulous elements could well take advantage of the situation that is prevailing there.

Earthquake victims run towards a helicopter to get airlifted to Kathmandu

While strict vigil is being kept at all the border posts, security personnel at the Indira Gandhi International Airport are also on their toes. The immigration department and the Airport Police are both on a state of high alert at the IGI Airport.

Sources told Headlines Today that an expert team is already in place looking into the profiling of passengers.

“Immigration Department has to see whether a passenger is genuine or not. Our expert team is qualified to check the suspicious movements or gestures of passengers. CISF intelligence is also in place. We are always in touch with the police and if there is any suspicion regarding any passenger, we refer the matter to the Delhi Police,” said a source in the Immigration Department, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Sources said that special attention is being placed on those passengers who are first-time flyers. There is a thorough check of the documents as well.

When asked on the human trafficking issue, another official in the Immigration Department added: “It’s a challenge. It has been there in the past as well. If the documents are all fine, there is nothing much you can do about it. It is only when someone complains, then you make a move. But, we are sensitive to this and are making efforts to remain vigilant.”

The inflow of people from Nepal is on, and the CISF intelligence is also aware that there are many taking connecting flights as well. There are additional checks in place for passengers catching another aircraft. Vigil is also being kept on domestic air trips. The Airport Police has placed a tight security web outside the terminal.

An Airport police official said: “We have done a lot of homework. There are some preliminary measures that we have taken. Generally, it is the road route which is under scanner but we are on alert here as well.”

This senior police official told Headlines Today that local intelligence has been activated and that sources among the hawkers, taxi booths and taxi unions have been asked to alert police if there is any suspicion regarding any passenger in a group, especially where girls and children are involved.
</text>