<url>
http://www.brecorder.com/top-news/108-pakistan-top-news/240816-pakistan-places-great-emphasis-on-strong-stable-afghanistan-dar.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Pakistan places great emphasis on strong stable Afghanistan: Dar
</headline>

<text>
BAKU: Finance Minister Senator Mohammad Ishaq Dar on Monday said that Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif under his vision for a peaceful and prosperous neighborhood places great emphasis on strong, stable and cooperative ties with Afghanistan.

“Such ties were mutually beneficial both for Pakistan as well as Afghanistan and would enhance regional peace, trade and economic opportunities for the people of the two countries”, Ishaq Dar said while talking to his Afghan counterpart Eklil Ahmad Hakimi here.

Dar gave the Afghan Finance Minister an update on progress achieved on the decisions taken during the meeting between the two Finance Ministers last November.

He said Pakistan had made continuous efforts to implement, as far as possible, all the decisions.

For facilitation of transit trade, efforts were being made like development of Web Based One Customs (WeBOC) System which would help in bringing transparency in the system and enable the Afghan importers and Customs authorities in both countries to trace the cargo en-route to Afghanistan.

Pakistan had resumed work on incomplete projects in Afghanistan in health, education sectors etc.

Dar said that funds for the Torkham-Jalalabad Highway had been released and the contractor would remobilize on ground within this month.

Furthermore, the Rehman Baba School Boys Hostel would be completed very soon.

Pakistan would extend all possible support to accomplish all tasks such as enhancing road and railways connectivity and energy projects.

Dar asked for expeditious response on different spheres from the Afghan side including road link between Pakistan and Tajikistan through Ishkashim (Afghanistan) and Joint Power Project on Kunar River.

He said Pakistan also looked forward to an early response of the Afghan Government to the draft PTA between Afghanistan and Pakistan and the draft Trilateral Agreement on Transit Trade between Tajikistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Eklil Ahmad Hakimi expressed appreciation on Pakistan's eagerness on completing projects in Afghanistan and said he would see to it that on all important matters, responses from the Afghan side were expedited.

Earlier, Ishaq Dar also addressed the 9th Informal meeting of SAARC Finance Ministers here and emphasized the need of regional connectivity for Economic growth of the region. He encouraged all the countries to work together for the betterment of the people.

The Minister said that in the present era, regional integration had provided opportunities to make progress by addressing the problems of energy shortage, mobility constraints for lagging and landlocked regions and high transaction costs.

He said that South Asia remained a highly protected region in the world in terms of regional integration. Intra-regional trade in SAFTA remained only 5% of its total world trade while in European Union it was 65%, in NAFTA 51% and in ASEAN 25%.

Dar said South Asian countries had opened their doors to the rest of the world but there was lack of market integration and weak connectivity within the region. The demand for infrastructure, particularly electricity, was growing rapidly in the region as the economies modernized and shifted resources from agriculture to industry.

The Minister called for Implementation of Trade Liberalization Programme (TLP) under SAFTA and added that number of products covered in the sensitive lists of member states should be reduced further.

Dar said Pakistan was already following a liberalized Foreign Exchange regime with respect to investment. Other member states should also liberalize it to promote investment within the region.

The Minister on this occasion also expressed sorrow and grief over the loss of life and property in Nepal due to the earthquake. He said people of Pakistan shared the grief of the Nepalese people and the Pakistan government was extending all possible help for relief activities.
</text>