<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Lucknow/Restore-tomb-of-Begum-Hazrat-Mahal-demands-family/articleshow/47155258.cms
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Restore tomb of Begum Hazrat Mahal, demands family
</headline>

<text>
LUCKNOW: Reports of cracks in Begum Hazrat Mahal's tomb in Nepal after the April 22 earthquake disturbed her family in the city. They have urged Union and state governments to initiate a dialogue with Nepalese authorities so that a restoration work could be undertaken. They have also decided to send a formal letter to prime minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav."Her tomb is memorial of an important chapter in Indian history which must be protected," said Irfan Ali Mirza, Wajid Ali Shah's fifth generation descendent, adding, "There is no control on nature and such vagaries, we can at least expect restoration of the monument. The begum was Wajid Ali's wife. Mirza added that he would wait till life returns to normal in Nepal. "The burden of the quake is tragic. Once life gets back to normal, we would send an appeal to the Nepal government as well," he said.His cousin Asif Ali Mirza said his grandmother was a freedom fighter and deserves respect as in proper maintenance of her memorial. "Many people draw inspiration from it even today," he said. Besides the immediate family members, the Royal Family of Oudh (a body comprising Royals in Avadh) will also send a petition for getting the tomb restored. "Begum is Oudh's pride and her memorial deserves respect," said Shikoh Azad, the secretary."She never gave up and that's what appeals to women universally," said Madhu Garg, state secretary, All India Democratic Women's Association. After East India Company exiled Wajid Ali Shah, Hazrat Mahal combated them with courage and determination."She was orphaned at an early age, lived with her artisan uncle who had modest means. Her life took a dramatic turn when she defied protocol and refused to dance at one of Wajid Ali Shah's theatrical performances, where he often played the role of Krishna," recalled Roshan Taqui, who has authored a book on the Begum.Citing a reference from recently published 'In The City of Gold and Silver - The Story of Begum Hazrat Mahal', Ravi Bhatt said, "Intrigued more than offended, the ruler of Oudh told her to explain her reluctance. She told him that she wrote poetry. The nawab then invited her to recite one of her compositions. She complied without hesitation. He was so wonder-struck that he took her into his harem. When she bore him a son, Birjis Qudar, he took her as his fourth wife.Author of this book, Kenize Mourad, was deeply impressed by the begum's strategies and courage. In an interview, she said, "Rani of Jhansi Lakshmi Bai is remembered because she died on the battlefield. She fought for about four or five months. But Begum Hazrat Mahal fought the British for two years. It took the British nine months to gain control over Lucknow. The begum continued her fight for a year after this." She later took asylum in Nepal where she died in 1879.
</text>