<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/City/Kolkata/Grateful-to-Mamata-for-help-Nepal-minister/articleshow/47155458.cms
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Grateful to Mamata for help: Nepal minister
</headline>

<text>
PANITANKI (Indo-Nepal border): Three months back, in February, chief minister Mamata Banerjee flew the 466km distance from Kolkata to Dhaka to send a message that she is finally willing to look beyond Bengal in broader national interest. On Monday, she walked the 1km — from Panitanki to Kakarbhitta — to send a similar message to another neighbour.Like in Dhaka, her trip to Nepal on Monday to help quake-affected victims left an impact.Before boarding the Bagdogra flight, Mamata told reporters, "There is scarcity of some things in Nepal, which its government has sought from us. I am carrying those things." Nepal responded to Mamata's helping hand with warmth.Nepal urban development minister Dr Narayan Kharke, who was also present, expressed gratitude for this gesture."On the behalf of the Nepal government, I would like to express my gratitude to the government and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. We are thankful for getting such support," Kharke said.Chandra Prasad Chithala, a Kakarbhitta local, appeared overwhelmed at this gesture. "Since April 25 we have seen several relief laden trucks cross over to Nepal from India. But today was different for its precision. The relief was handed over to the government and the Nepal Army, which will then re-distribute them. A lot of relief materials are not reaching the beneficiaries for they are being distributed by private agencies in a haphazard manner," he said.Gopal Chandra, another local, said, "Relief should reach the people who need it. We hope this effort, because it was coordinated by the two governments, is of help to the affected. We are grateful to the West Bengal chief minister."Mamata said, "Today, I have come to Panitanki in Siliguri near Nepal border to provide relief materials to our brothers and sisters of Nepal, who are in great distress due to devastating earthquake. Our hearts are full of sorrow for them. As a gesture of solidarity, friendship, goodwill, brotherhood and to strengthen our relations, West Bengal government has launched cross-border humanitarian exercise of distribution of relief materials of blankets, tarpaulins, water pouches and many more lifesaving items. We are with our brothers and sisters of Nepal and committed to offer them our support. We wish for Nepal to smile, overcoming their sorrow and human tragedy."Mamata had visited Siliguri on April 26, a day after the devastating earthquake that hit the Himalayan country, to take stock of the damage in North Bengal. North Bengal reported three deaths — one each in Jalpaiguri, Naxalbari and Siliguri — due to the quake. Nearly 80 injured persons were admitted to a Siliguri government hospital. The CM, according to senior officers, wanted to flag off the relief-laden trucks from Panitanki itself. However, in a change of plans she walked to Kakarbhitta and spent nearly an hour at the cultural office. The formal handover was made there.
</text>