<url>
http://www.perthnow.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-101-year-old-man-found-alive-a-week-after-quake/story-fnhrvhol-1227333491796?nk=74a6eb4d4d3f0d6b89975be4a40de98c
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 101-year-old man found alive a week after quake
</headline>

<text>
RESCUERS have pulled a 101-year-old man alive from his ruined home a week after Nepal’s earthquake claimed at least 7200 lives.

Funchu Tamang was rescued on Saturday from the rubble of his house with only minor injuries to his ankle and hand, after the quake ripped through the impoverished country on April 25.

“He was brought to the district hospital in a helicopter. His condition is stable,” said police officer Arun Kumar Singh, from Nuwakot district, around 80 kilometres northwest of Kathmandu.

media_camera Funchu Tamang, 101, sits on a bed in a hospital in Nuwakot district. Picture: AFP media_camera Funchu Tamang, 101, was rescued on Saturday. Picture: AFP

media_camera Miracle ... Funchu Tamang, 101, recovers in hospital after being rescued from his collapsed home in Nepal. Picture: AFP

The rescue was rare good news for the devastated country after officials on Saturday ruled out finding more survivors buried in the ruins and the focus shifted to trying to deliver aid to thousands of people in remote Himalayan areas.

Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat said the death toll was likely to jump once relief teams reach mountain villages flattened in the worst quake to hit the nation in more than 80 years.

“There are still villages where we know that all houses have been destroyed, but have not yet been able to reach,” Mahat said in a statement.

“The aftershocks have not receded and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher,” the minister said, as he appealed for hundreds of millions of dollars in foreign donations to help rebuild the country.

media_camera Mopping up ... members of the Nepalese police clear debris from the historical heritage site, Dunbar square in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/ Philippe Lopez

The 7.8-magnitude quake wreaked a trail of death and destruction, reducing much of the capital Kathmandu to rubble and triggering a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest.

In the worst-hit districts of Gorkha and Sindhupalchowk, almost 90 per cent of the mostly stone and mud homes have been destroyed, the United Nations said in its latest situation report.

“Our priority now is really to try to reach those people (in remote areas), get immediate assistance to them,” the UN’s head of humanitarian affairs Valerie Amos said.

media_camera Water source ... the Nepalese army distributes drinking water and packed noodles for people who have had their homes damaged in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha

The relief effort received a boost late Sunday when a United States Air Force C-17 aircraft and four tilt-rotor Ospreys landed in Kathmandu.

“They’re going to make an immediate difference,” US Brigadier General Paul Kennedy said.

“We’ve got search and rescue teams waiting to go out to the remote areas, we’ve got relief supplies, especially shelters. Most people don’t understand that a shelter is the most pressing need, so we’re going to take these things out starting tomorrow morning,” he added.

media_camera Relief ... US soldiers unload Huey Helicopters from a US Air Force Boeing C-17 Globemaster III after landing at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha

media_camera Foreign aid ... relief material brought in from China lie at the Tribhuvan International airport in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha

International planes loaded with relief supplies have poured into landlocked Nepal, but there have been numerous reports of many getting stuck at Kathmandu’s small airport, and customs officials stopping trucks filled with aid from neighbouring India.

Tribhuvan International Airport has also been closed to heavy planes over concern about the condition of the single runway after the quake and a series of strong aftershocks, said Birendra Prasad Shrestha, the airport’s manager.

“We have issued a notice saying that aircraft with a total weight exceeding 196 tonnes will not be allowed to land at Kathmandu airport,” Shrestha said.

“There are no visible cracks in the runway but there have been so many tremors recently that we have to take precautions — we don’t know what’s happening below the surface.”

media_camera Aid ... villagers carry donated aid in the destroyed village of Pokharidanda, near the epicentre of the April 25 massive earthquake. Picture: AP Photo/Wally Santana

media_camera Tent city ... families left displaced after the earthquake live in tents in Kathmandu, Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Niranjan Shrestha

The UN’s humanitarian chief Valerie Amos said on Saturday she was “extremely concerned” that Nepal’s customs authorities were slowing the delivery of quake aid.

“I was extremely concerned to hear reports that customs was taking such a long time,” she said, adding that she had asked Prime Minister Sushil Koirala to speed up customs clearance for aid materials.

“He has undertaken to ensure that happens, so I hope that from now we will see an improvement in those administrative issues.”

media_camera Rubble ... Lila Khanal gazes over the rubble of her collapsed home in the destroyed village of Pokharidanda in the Gorkha District of Nepal. Picture: AP Photo/Wally Santana

The death toll from the disaster has hit 7250, according to the Emergency Operations Centre, with more than 14,000 injured. More than 100 were also killed in India and China.

Fifty-one bodies, including those of six foreigners, have been found in the popular Langtang trekking region hit by a quake-triggered avalanche.

“We estimate that about 100 foreigners might still be missing in the area,” senior local official Uddav Prasad Bhattarai said.

“Our priority was to get the survivors out. We rescued over 350 people, about a half of them were tourists or guides,” he said.

One week after #NepalEarthquake, the health & wellbeing of children are hanging in the balance http://t.co/mLihQiROZX pic.twitter.com/jBQgGMgi5P — UNICEF (@UNICEF) May 2, 2015

Climbing firms on Sunday called off their Everest spring expeditions, after the quake-triggered avalanche killed 18 on the world’s highest peak.

“With ongoing aftershocks and tremors we can’t continue expeditions,” said two-time Everest summiteer Dawa Steven Sherpa of Kathmandu-based Asian Trekkers.

media_camera Struggling ... Nepalese women queue at a water distribution point in Kathmandu. Picture: AFP/Menahem Kahana

media_camera Destruction ... a man stands among debris of a collapsed building in Sankhu, Nepal. Picture: David Ramos/Getty Images)

The UN’s situation report says teams that have arrived in Gorkha have discovered a “dire need for shelter, particularly tents and blankets”.

“Access to some remote villages remains a key challenge as many landing zones are unsafe due to debris, altitude and current weather conditions,” the report also says.

“Road access is limited. Some remote villages can only be accessed by helicopters.”

The Red Cross has warned of “total devastation” in far-flung places, where whole villages have been destroyed and survivors are sleeping in the open.

Originally published as 101-year-old pulled from rubble in Nepal
</text>