<url>
http://www.vancouversun.com/woman+home+after+surviving+Nepal+earthquake/11025637/story.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
B.C. woman home after surviving Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A Vancouver Island woman who experienced the deadly earthquake last week in Kathmandu has returned home safely, but she says Nepal’s struggle to recover is just beginning.

Taylor Winfrey touched down in Vancouver Thursday afternoon following a 72-hour trip from Kathmandu by way of Dubai and London. On Sunday morning, she was trying to relax at her family home in Duncan while dealing with something akin to survivor’s guilt.

“I was so relieved but I was still a lot in shock,” she said of her exit from Nepal.

“It’s like, I’m getting out of there but everyone else is still down there.”

Winfrey had been volunteering at a school for street children since December, and watched the walls of the house she was living in crumble as the quake struck. She’s been told that the students she taught are safe, but she can’t yet be sure.

When she left the capital city late Tuesday, its open spaces were still occupied by tent cities filled with people whose homes were destroyed by the quake and subsequent aftershocks. She described the mood as surprisingly calm, but said the need for food and clean water is urgent.

“It’s great to donate money to all these causes, but the main issue is that aid is having troubles getting in, because they only have that one airport,” she said.

“I don’t know how they’re going to get as much help as they need, in a reasonable amount of time. That’s what really, really freaks me out.”

Monsoon season is set to begin in the next couple of months, which could complicate matters even more.

“With the risk of flood and the fact that everything is still compromised now from the quake, it could turn into a really big nightmare,” she said.

Since returning to Canada, Winfrey has checked in with friends in Nepal and they’re still feeling aftershocks. Meanwhile, she’s trying to get used to being back on relatively solid ground.

“I was on the ferry yesterday and every time it was shaking, as it does, I was freaking out. There’s leftover, residual fear,” she said.

She wants to return to Nepal someday, but in the meantime Winfrey hopes to coordinate with some other Canadian volunteers to send a shipment of supplies to earthquake-affected areas.

Several Canadian organizations have been stepping up their aid to Nepal in the week since the earthquake hit.

Last week, firefighters from Burnaby coordinated the evacuation of a 24-year-old Calgary woman and three other hikers from Langtang National Park, where they had been stranded. Tamara McLeod and her companions were plucked from their campsite by a Nepalese Army helicopter, which took them to a nearby town.

“I had a keen awareness of the privilege that comes with my passport,” McLeod told the Calgary Herald in a phone call from India.

“I was getting airlifted out and I wasn’t even hurt, while my Nepali friends in the village had nowhere to go and had just lost everything.”

Another group of Canadians took off from Vancouver and Toronto on Saturday to help with Nepal’s urgent health care needs. Fifteen members of the Canadian Medical Assistance Team (CMAT), including six British Columbians, were scheduled to arrive in Kathmandu late Sunday evening.

“The biggest concerns are ensuring we monitor for pneumonia and diarrhea, as they pose the greatest outbreak risk at this time,” said CMAT vice-chair Kate Auger, the leader of an assessment team that arrived in Nepal last week.

Members of Canada’s Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) were deployed to Nepal on Saturday along with personnel from the Department of Foreign Affairs, to provide field engineers, construction engineers and medical assistance.

With a file from the Calgary Herald

blindsay@vancouversun.com

Click here to report a typo or visit vancouversun.com/typo.
</text>