<url>
http://www.bendbulletin.com/nation/3126618-151/nation-world-briefing
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nation & World briefing
</headline>

<text>
A- A+

— From wire reports

British elections — They are a remarkable contrast: David Cameron, 48, the red-cheeked toff who went to Eton and belonged to snooty clubs; and Ed Miliband, 45, the gawky, adenoidal, agnostic son of a Marxist Jewish refugee and historian. Yet both are part of the English elite — the Tory clan of the southeast countryside in the case of Cameron, the incumbent prime minister, and the Labour clan of North London intellectuals for Miliband, his challenger in Thursday’s general election. Polls suggest that neither of their parties is likely to get much more than a third of the vote in Thursday’s election.

Nepal aftermath — Relief supplies for earthquake victims have been piling up at the airport and in warehouses in Kathmandu, Nepal, because of bureaucratic interference by Nepalese authorities who insist that standard customs inspections and other procedures be followed, even in an emergency, Western government and aid organization officials said Sunday. The U.S. ambassador to Nepal, Peter Bodde, said he had spoken to Nepal’s prime minister, Sushil Koirala, about the issue and “he assured me that all the red tape will be stopped.” Also Sunday, three survivors were pulled from rubble in the Sindhupalchok district, an especially hard-hit and largely rural area.

Yemeni fighters — Yemeni fighters who are believed to have received training and weapons in the Persian Gulf entered combat around the southern city of Aden on Sunday, joining with militiamen who are battling Houthi rebels, according to local militia fighters in Aden. The new troops arrived by sea in the past few days, they said. They all appeared to be Yemenis from the south who had trained in Saudi Arabia and possibly other Persian Gulf states, according to a senior local commander, a fighter and an allied resident, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss troop actions.

Al-Qaida claims role in killing in Bangladesh — The leader of al-Qaida’s branch in the Indian subcontinent has published a video claiming responsibility for the killing of Avijit Roy, an atheist Bangladeshi-American blogger who was killed Feb. 26 by a group of men with machetes. The leader of the branch, Asim Umar, said followers of his group were responsible for the killing of several people he called “blasphemers”: Mohammad Shakil Auj, an Islamic scholar fatally shot in Karachi, Pakistan, in 2014; Aniqa Naz, a Pakistani blogger; Rajib Haider, a blogger killed in a machete attack in Dhaka, the Bangladeshi capital, in 2013; and Roy.

More peace in Congress — Following some early legislative successes in the U.S. House and Senate — terrorism insurance, a veterans’ suicide-prevention bill, Homeland Security spending, authorization to build the Keystone XL oil pipeline, major Medicare changes and an anti-sex-trafficking bill — Republicans say their leadership is responsible for returning Congress, particularly the Senate, to a functioning institution in the opening months of Republican control of Capitol Hill. Democrats agree that progress is being made,but cite an alternative reason: Democrats are not acting the way Republicans did in the minority, but are cooperating with the new majority, they say, rather than shutting down the Senate via filibuster.

Protests in Tel-Aviv — On Sunday, thousands of young Ethiopian-Israelis and sympathizers demonstrated in Tel Aviv, Israel, blocking main thoroughfares. On Sunday evening, the demonstration took a violent turn, with protesters clashing with the police in Rabin Square. Officers responded with tear gas, according to Israeli news reports. The trigger for the rage now spilling onto Israel’s streets came just over a week ago, when a police officer was caught on a security camera beating an Ethiopian-Israeli soldier in uniform in the city of Holon, in the Tel Aviv suburbs, for no apparent reason.

9835753
</text>