<url>
http://www.chron.com/news/houston-texas/houston/article/Houston-natives-escape-Nepal-shaken-grateful-6239949.php
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Houston natives escape Nepal shaken, grateful
</headline>

<text>
Houston natives escape Nepal shaken, grateful





Photo: Family Photo Image 1 of / 2 Caption Close Image 1 of 2 Debora Silberman, left, and Rachael Sufyan. Photo was taken while hiking in 2014 in Vietnam. Debora Silberman, left, and Rachael Sufyan. Photo was taken while hiking in 2014 in Vietnam. Photo: Family Photo Image 2 of 2 Photo of Nathan Silberman taken while hiking in 2013 in Canada. Photo of Nathan Silberman taken while hiking in 2013 in Canada. Photo: Family Photo Houston natives escape Nepal shaken, grateful 1 / 2 Back to Gallery

On one side, a cliff dropping about 50 feet to a ravine, and on the other, boulders and the mountain. The three were hiking in a single-file line: sister, friend and then the older brother. Suddenly, everything started shaking, but to Nathan Silberman, 32, it felt like it was in his head, a dizzying unknown attack. Then his sister Debbie Silberman, 30, called out: "It's an earthquake."

The goal for the Houston-raised siblings and their friend Rachael Subyan, 30, when they landed in Nepal several days earlier, was to hike up to Everest base camp. They had hired a local guiding company and were close to the village of Dingboche when in the morning of April 25, the earthquake hit. They witnessed a landslide on the other side of the water as boulders and rocks tumbled, and as they would later descend back to Lukla, the gateway of the Himalayas, the devastation it caused to homes, temples, people and the mountains. But in the moment they had no idea the scope and impact of the tremors they felt. In the moment, they felt just panic.

In Houston, their parents received a phone call at 8 a.m. from Subyan's parents in Pennsylvania. For two hours, they worried about their kids, fueled by news articles and photos. Then, a few hours later, the siblings found a weak internet connection. "We're alive and OK."

As Nepal counts 7,000 dead, the three American hikers landed in Rome Sunday. After making the decision to abort their hike and return to Lukla, they passed village after village of destruction, sleeping outside in tents at night, alert for aftershocks both real and conjured out of memories. Getting out of Lukla was tough, as scores of tourists had descended, trying to get to Kathmandu and eventually home. The runway was short and weather conditions had to be perfect. It was claustrophobic and hectic. For five days, guide company promises to get plane seats fell through, they felt manipulated and alone, and eventually, the Silbermans learned to pay a little extra to secure a spot out. In Houston, their parents contacted every government branch they could think of: the embassy, Senator Ted Cruz, the State Department and received no word back.

But still, by Sunday, they left. And Nepal was still suffering. Shelter and food scarce, fear of disease setting in. Loved ones buried. Business and the economy ruined. The powerful mountains split in some places.

"For us it was quite traumatic to see but it was very depressing to know we could leave the devastation behind but for them this devastation was their new life," Debbie Silberman said. It had been frustrating and scary, and still, she said, "I feel incredibly guilty. We're so lucky."
</text>