<url>
http://www.thenational.scot/world/nepal-plea-for-more-aid-as-death-toll-rises.2567
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal: Plea for more aid as death toll rises
</headline>

<text>
THREE survivors of last week’s devastating earthquake in Nepal were pulled from the rubble yesterday, but government officials have warned they expect the death toll to grow much higher.

Over 7,100 people are now believed to have died in Nepal as rescuers found around 50 bodies, believed to be from the same village, just off of a known trekking route in the north of the country.

A spokesperson for the Nepalese Home Ministry said that chances of finding survivors in the rubble are now extremely slim, adding that it would be a miracle if anyone is found alive.

However, less than 12 hours later, the government confirmed that three survivors from the district of Sindhupalchowk in Kathmandu were dug out from the rubble by police and army workers.

Nepal’s Finance Minister Ran Sharan Mahat yesterday said that while rescue teams are doing their best to find people alive, he expects the number of casualties to climb much higher.

Speaking in Baku, Azerbaijan, Mahat said there are still entire villages which have not yet been reached where the houses have been completely destroyed.

“It is with great pain and sadness that I stand before you to present the case of my country Nepal which now remains devastated,” he said. “The aftershocks have not receded and we expect the final casualty numbers to climb much higher.”

Police search-and-rescue teams found more than 50 bodies in the remote northern Rasuwa district of Nepal at the weekend, but have not yet been able to identify any of the bodies. One of the avalanche’s which hit the district is believed to have wiped out the entire village of Langtang, home to around 4,500 people as well as 55 guesthouses.

Head of Trekking Agencies Association of Nepal Ganga Sagar Pant said: “All that is left is scattered belongings like bags and coats, all the houses have been thrown down the mountain. I don’t think anyone can survive that.”

The first bodies were found near the small mountain village on Saturday and extensive searches continued to take place yesterday, but hopes of finding survivors in the snow-covered region are all but over.

The 7.8 magnitude earthquake which hit on April 25 has left an estimated three million people in need of food aid across the country. Special foods are also required for around 200,000 children and pregnant women, as UN officials fear more people will begin to suffer from severe malnutrition.

The Nepalese government yesterday agreed to loosen the checks on incoming packages at their border control stations after disputes with UN officials over the customs measures being used on incoming aid.

The government has however put a ban on any larger incoming aircraft from landing at the country’s only international airport, due to concerns over potholes and damage to the runway.

Large planes which weigh over 196 tonnes will now no longer be able to touch down anywhere in Nepal until maintenance work has been carried out.

The government has claimed that the restrictions will not hamper aid efforts though, as medium and small aircraft can still land at the base. The government has repeated calls that more aid is needed to curb the impending humanitarian crisis in the Asian nation.

You can donate to The National’s appeal to support Unicef in Nepal by texting GIVE to 70123 to give £5

Visit unicef.org.uk/nepal
</text>