<url>
http://www.deccanchronicle.com/150504/nation-current-affairs/article/nepal-earthquake-varanasi-volunteer-helps-locate-missing
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Varanasi volunteer helps locate missing people across borders
</headline>

<text>
Mumbai: A devastating earthquake of magnitude 7.8 on the Richter scale struck Nepal on the noon of 25th April. The death has by now surpassed the 7000 mark and may go up as thousands of people are still reportedly missing. It is really difficult for a single government body to monitor every person in the time of such a natural disaster especially in a country like Nepal.

India, a natural neighbour to the landlocked Himalayan nation was first to react and immediately rushed for help. Named as “Operation Maitri,” our army men were pressed in for rescue and relief work. It is logical for the families and friends to be worried about their loved ones who were in Nepal at the time when the earthquake struck. Many government organisations, individuals and volunteers too gave in their efforts to help the quake struck nation. One such person is Anupam Pandey, a resident of Varanasi and an independent volunteer who decided to help families and friends reach out to their loved ones in the quake affected area as all ways of communication was snapped.

First, Mr Pandey immediately started checking points, where we could contribute financially and help with the Relief Material. In this process; he contacted, RSS Delhi Office and found - Sewa International - one of the non-profit organisations and HSS contributing to rescue and relief work in Nepal.

He understood that not only rescue work but, family and friends were equally worried to know about their kins that were stuck in Nepal and now no communication was possible. So on the second day, he started reaching out to the people openly who wanted information about their family members. He started tweeting about emergency numbers and contact information for people here and also simultaneously stayed connected with some officers of Indian Army, Air Force, NDRF teams and HSS (Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh) members who reached Nepal by road.

Looking at this, people started requesting information from Mr Anupam since response from the MEA was unsatisfactory. And first in the list among the requestees was travelxp TV channel from Mumbai. Their 6-member crew was filming in Tatopani and had lost contact since then. My Anupam through his network confirmed that the crew was safe and until then made arrangements for their return.

Our team was stuck in Nepal. Now, we have received news that they are safe, at Kathmandu Airport. Graciously thank @AnupamkPandey @MEAIndia — travelxpHD (@travelxp) April 26, 2015

This took up like a chain reaction and more and more people started inquiring about their relatives in Nepal. Especially in the Langtang region, which is the worst affected also because of the avalanche as a result of the earthquake. Mr Pandey makes it a point to reply to every tweet as and when he gets information through his trustworthy sources.

No only Indians but also people from different nationalities have requested him for information and If in case he was unable to help or contact, he would help them by providing relevant contact details so the person can take alternate steps for getting in touch. British actor, documentary maker and human rights worker Rory Girvan also thanked Mr Anupam for his work

Thrilled to say Jonnie and Lena have been rescued, thanks to Indian Air Force & massive thanks to @AnupamkPandey a true hero #langtang — Rory Girvan (@Rory_Girvan) May 1, 2015

Mr Anupam also tweets list of people who are being rescued with their nationalities and photographs (whenever available) and also who returned to India with the help of Indian Air Force. He is also in constant touch with two organisations engaged in rescue work in Lantang who do not want their names to be disclosed.

Since Mr Anupam has been in touch with Deccan Chronicle, he has updated us with the latest and confirmed developments. By now a total of 300 people from different nationalities have evacuated from the Langtang valley. And as per the latest update with confirmed information provided to us; 50+ dead bodies have been recovered and 25 Foreigners have been safely rescued.

With all his hard work, it is an enormous effort by a single person to keep people updated with a personal touch. Helping people at such time of crisis and without expectation is commendable and proves his true volunteership. As he does not forget to mention - "Finally, I can say humanity wins, feels good to make someone happy, every moment." We hope that his catalytic help will keep hopes alive and will bring more smiles.
</text>