<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3067408/Gurkha-soldiers-join-hunt-missing-British-backpacker-not-contact-family-devastating-earthquake-hit-Nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Gurkha soldiers hunt for missing Matt Carapiet after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Gurkhas have joined the search for British trekker Matt Carapiet, who has been missing since before the devastating earthquake hit Nepal last Saturday.

The 23-year-old is believed to have been travelling through a remote area of Nepal when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the country, killing at least 7,200 people.

His worried parents have set up a dedicated Facebook page, 'Bring Matt Carapiet Home', where they revealed on Monday that two Nepalis soldiers have been sent to the isolated Langtang Village region to look for the missing backpacker.

Scroll down for video

Matt Carapiet, aged 23 from Kent, is still missing nine days after the devastating earthquake hit Nepal

A soldier from the Gurkha regiment of the British army onboard an RAF flight to Kathmandu last week. Matt's family have said two Gurkhas have been sent to a remote part of Nepal to help search for the missing man

Officials from the Foreign Office’s emergency unit and two more Gurkhas, based in a town further down the hillside, are also involved in the search, it has been reported.

On Monday Matt's parents wrote on Facebook: 'Yesterday we were informed by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that two Gurkhas had been dropped into the Langtang Village area to search for Matt.

'We had no news as of last night.

'The Gurkhas have all info about Matt's location, appearance, the kit he was carrying and his likely destinations on the day of the earthquake.

'All our thoughts are with Matt, and hoping that the Gurkhas can see something on the ground that the helicopters could not see from the air.'

Matt started hiking to the village of Langtang, north of Kathmandu, two days before the quake hit on April 25

Nepalese soldiers have been aidng the search for survivors in the Nepalese capital of Kathmandu

Matt last called his family in Bearstead on April 19 when he was at the Lama Hotel in Kathmandu to tell them he would begin trekking to Langtang valley - which was destroyed in the 7.8 magnitute earthquake - two days later

Matt flew to Kathmandu for the final stop of his tour of Asia as part of his gap year before starting a Masters in architecture, and was trekking to Langtang Valley - around 30km from the Nepalese capital - when the disaster struck.

The last time he called his family in Bearsted, Kent was on April 19 when he was in Kathmandu to let them know he was preparing to start the Langtang Trail two days later.

A fellow backpacker who saw him on April 23 later contacted Matt's family to tell them he had been in the village of Thangsyrap, en route to Langtang.

Speaking last week to MailOnline, his family said the Foreign Office had made their suffering worse, after a call handler twice lost their emergency contact details and had Matt registered under the wrong name

Matt's worried parents said the Gurkas have been told all the information that could help them locate him

Gurkas aiding a survivor from the earthquake. Matt's worried parents wrote that they hope the two soldiers enlisted to look for their son will be able to see something on the ground not visible from helicopters overhead

He said Matt was considered returning to the his hotel in Kathmandu because he had injured his knee, but other backpackers convinced him 'Langtang was beautiful' and worth the three hours of trekking.

In a statement to MailOnline last week, the Carapiats criticised the 'shambolic organisation' of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office's (FCO) response, which they said 'has made their suffering worse'.

They revealed how an FCO call centre handling the response lost their details and registered the wrong name as his emergency contact, which they say could have hindered his extraction.

They told MailOnline: 'Everything we know has been through the help of people on social media and other kind strangers.

'We would expect the FCO to play a better role in informing and reassuring the families of victims about the status of their missing loved ones.'

There are currently no other Britons identified as missing or trapped in difficult conditions in the Nepalese mountains, and finding Matt is a 'high priority' case, The Telegraph reports.
</text>