<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/auckland/local-news/68237461/waiuku-mans-tears-for-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake fails to deter Habitat for Humanity man
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake fails to deter Habitat for Humanity man

Supplied Grahame Roberts in Pokhara, Nepal, before the earthquake struck.

As Grahame Roberts recalls the moment he was walking the streets of Thamel, Nepal and saw the earthquake's destruction for the first time, tears well in the Waiuku man's eyes.

Roberts, 72, is the construction manager for Habitat for Humanity's building project, the Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter Work Project, where a team of volunteers will build 100 homes in five days in November.

On the streets of Thamel, a district of Kathmandu, after the 7.8-magnitude quake struck on April 25, Roberts saw collapsed buildings and panicked, injured people, which he has replayed in his mind since arriving back in New Zealand on Sunday.

Briar Hubbard Grahame Roberts is at home in Waiuku, following the earthqauke, but will be heading back to Nepal on Tuesday.

"I remember seeing the Christchurch earthquakes and seeing all those heroes and I wondered how I would react ... I saw people scrambling over the rubble and I had to walk away. After that, I had nightmares that I didn't have the guts to help."

Roberts and around 500 of the hotel's guests slept in the lobby for two nights, all too afraid to sleep in their rooms while the aftershocks were occurring. On the third night Roberts was back in his room, although he said he jumped at the slightest noise.

He will go back to Nepal on Tuesday to continue working on the housing project, which is now even more important to him.

"I've got to go back. I felt like the biggest evil in the world, in the airport, going home and leaving my friends behind. I felt so bad leaving."

But a few days away from the disaster has done him good.

"I've needed to have a break, I've been very emotional. But I feel horrible not being there to help as well. It's mixed emotions. I can't say I understand how they feel because I don't have family there, but they have no insurance or anything. They've lost everything.

"I'm shellshocked, it's a bit unreal. It's so calm in New Zealand. I've been in shock for over a week. The world hasn't been real at all. I have a completely new respect for our Cantabrian friends."

When the quake struck, three weeks into his trip, Roberts had feared for his life. He had just arrived in his hotel room, which was on the third floor, when the entire building began shaking and the walls were warping. He held onto a concrete wall arch, for what seemed like forever.

"I've never been so scared in my life ... I thought I was going to die. It was everything I could do not to be thrown across the room."

The country was transformed the following day, but while unstable and unsafe, he was surprised to see multi-storeyed buildings still standing, he said.

"The whole country had turned into a tent town overnight. People were too scared to go back into houses."

Roberts said before the quake he had felt like building 100 homes would be a great help, but now, it seemed insignificant.

"I had a feeling that building 100 homes was going to be a good contribution, but around 100,000 homes have been destroyed.

"Even if it wasn't for the project, I would have to go back."

The homes being built in Pokhara, four hours' drive from Kathmandu, were still needed, despite the fact it was not badly affected, he said.

"The people in Pokhara still need it. It's helping it not get worse. If we can get more volunteers than we need for the project, we will send them to the hard hit places.

"We are so far behind in what we have to do. Now we are expecting a shortage of building material and prices will go through the roof."

Roberts' wife and three of his four children will travel to Nepal in November to help build the houses.

The couple are so involved with Habitat for Humanity that they downsized their house and moved from Howick to Waiuku earlier this year, so they could afford to do more volunteer work.

"We are so lucky in New Zealand, we don't know how lucky we have it. We've had ups and downs in our lives, but we've been lucky. I've given something back and left something behind."

- Stuff
</text>