<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/nepal-quake-when-the-best/1824928.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: When the best facets of the human spirit shine through disaster
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU: When people are stripped of their possessions by the indiscriminate fury of Mother Nature, it can manifest a whole array of human reactions. People either cower and become shadows of their former, colourful selves or get very angry and even violent.



However, sometimes they display the very best facets of the indefatigable human spirit.



Volunteers help clean UNESCO World Heritage Site Swayambhunath complex. (Photo: Taufex Khamid)

Remember the stoic queues of Japanese earthquake and tsunami survivors in the Tohoku region in 2011? And despite some reports of rioting and looting in Tacloban after Typhoon Haiyan ravaged the Visayas region of the Philippines in 2013, there were far more instances of Filipinos queueing in orderly lines at banks, shops and aid distribution centres.

In Nepal right now, there may be anger at a perceived lack of government leadership by the tens of thousands displaced by the quake, but that has not yet translated into civil unrest.



Advertisement

Advertisement

Displaced children playing at a campsite in Kathmandu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

MAKING-DO AFTER A DISASTER



Within 48 hours of the quake, about 5,000 people made an army camp ground in central Kathmandu their home. My crew and I went there overnight looking for a place to report from in the morning and were simply stunned by the sight of hundreds of ad-hoc tarpaulins stretching across the length and breadth of the massive field.



Thundikhel camp in Kathmandu (Photo: Steve Clark)

We then made our way to the bleachers where I would imagine the upper echelons of the army and society would sit for occasional displays of national pride. The bleachers had a roof to protect such dignitaries from the elements, but on that night, every inch of the four sets of bleachers was covered by residents trying to keep warm.



Bleachers at Thundikhel camp in Kathmandu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

At approximately 12 degrees Celsius that night, the temperature was 9 degrees Celsius higher than the previous rain-soaked night.



That, however, would not bring back the mother of Mamta Rauniyar. She had survived the quake, but died from exposure during that previous, unusually cold night. 55 members of her extended family shared the same small green tarpaulin near the bleachers.



KP Rauniyar is among 55 people who live in the makeshift tent pictured behind him. (Photo: Steve Clark)

That last act of nature’s capricious cruelty had just been too much for Mamta and struggling to collect her thoughts, she told me: “Our government has not come to see, in our camp, how you people have. That you are dying, living or taking food or not.”



I wondered how much more Mamta could take, and how many others felt the same way she did; and how long their patience would last.



A RIOT THAT WAS NOT



So when we received news about reports of trouble and perhaps even a riot at Kathmandu’s central bus station or “Buspark” in the quake-ravaged part of town called Gonga Bu, we took it very seriously.



My crew and I received the alert and charged in to cover and verify whatever was actually going on. Upon our arrival, about 30 minutes later, we found out that riot police had essentially been deployed for crowd control. There was no unrest.



Buspark in Kathmandu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

But not everything is as rosy, as three bus ticket agents were arrested for jacking up the prices to extortionate rates and the police had to make sure people were not buying one ticket and using it for more than one person.

Overcrowded buses as people try to leave quake-hit Kathmandu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

The Kathmandu exodus was on the whole comprised of people from outlying areas who had moved to the capital to find work. Now they were worried about not being able to contact their families and as one woman told me: “I want to work, but the hotel where I’m employed is broken so what to do?”



So whilst some shops were reopening, many remained closed as they were likely manned by rural Nepalis who tend to take on the lower-paid jobs in the capital.



A WORLD GONE TOPSY TURVY



We gained exclusive access to an Armed Police Force patrol that took us through some of the worst affected neighbourhoods.



A building hit by the Nepal quake. (Photo: Steve Clark)

A collapsed building hit by the Nepal quake. (Photo: Steve Clark)

Travelling with members of Singapore-based Corporate Citizen Foundation (CCF), a Swift Entry and Evaluation Deployment (SEED) partner of MediaCorp, we chanced upon the discovery of three bodies. The bodies of a mother, father and young son were lying face down, and their bodies were quite badly decomposed. The recovery team sprayed the bodies with insecticide repeatedly to shoo away flies, though it was quite a lost cause.

A recovery team tries to rid a family's bodies of flies. (Photo: Steve Clark)

CCF’s Hassan Ahmad grabbed three body bags on hand, and gave them to the recovery team, some of whom did not even have latex gloves.



A line of string had been drawn up about waste height to keep onlookers from getting too close, but was proving just as effective as the insecticide being sprayed on the bodies to repel the flies.



Onlookers gathering after three bodies were recovered from rubble.

When the stiff and mangled body of the father was turned over, several onlookers started to wail, whilst others were stunned into silence by the sight of the bulging eyes on a bloated and blackened face. Some who could not bear to see more, ran away.

The recovery team processed the body, delving into the man’s pockets to retrieve a mobile phone and a wallet that would hopefully contain some form of identification.

Onlookers after Armed Police Forces recovered three dead bodies from a collapsed building. (Photo: Steve Clark)

The new team drove away, noticeably quieter in a police jeep. We all had the same thought on our minds; Just how many more bodies will be found and bagged in that same manner? How many would have their deaths not recorded, by dint of having their lives snuffed out in too remote a part of the land?

REMOTE RURAL AREAS



With that thought, we realised there was an increasingly harrowing story emerging from those in more remote rural areas. We committed ourselves to finding out just how bad the situation was in a district called Sindhupalckok, north of Kathmandu and near to the China border.



Securing a 4x4 vehicle, with the help of the concierge at our hotel, was a stroke of luck. We had heard that bidding wars had erupted between news agencies for such vehicles. We packed the survival gear we had, along with food, water and our equipment and headed north on narrow, but good roads through Nepal’s famously mountainous terrain. Occasional landslides, of course, made the journey a tad more challenging.



The Channel NewsAsia crew getting ready to head into the Sindhupalchok district. (Photo: Taufex Khamid)

In Sindhupalchok, we drove through village after village. Some were totally flattened, and residents were shaken to the core. Some villages had buildings that appeared to have survived, but local people assured us that they were now uninhabitable.



A home in Sindhupalchok destroyed by the Nepal quake. (Photo: Anand Krishna)

A common refrain from residents was that 95 per cent of the buildings had been rendered unlivable and that no aid had yet reached them. In Melchowr, Mr Raje told me the entire village had received just one tarpaulin. He then asked: “One tarpaulin for 3,000 people - is that really any kind of relief?”



'ALL SO STRANGE'



Chautara is known locally as the headquarters of Sindhupalchok District and it is in very bad shape. It is essentially a linear town with one main road running through it.



A collapsed building in Chautara.

Both sides of the one lane road are devastated. Some of its 5,000-plus residents were risking life and limb combing through their structurally unsound former houses, for precious possessions and even to find missing family members.

Ms Sushma Shresti watched us do a live report for Channel NewsAsia and then invited us to over to the tarpaulin she had been living under since the quake destroyed her house. This woman who had nothing was offering us tea! I was not just being polite, it truly was a lovely cup of tea.



Cameraman Taufex Khamid shooting devastation caused by the Nepal quake.

In our chat over that lovely cuppa, Sushma remarked that it was all "so strange". This situation was something she expected to see on TV, happening in places like Japan and Indonesia, not in her country. Not to her family.



From watching news about those other countries when misfortune struck them, Sushma now knew that it was only a matter of time before the usual spectre of post-disaster diseases, like dysentery, starts to claim still more victims. Looking at her one-month-old baby, her voice became very serious as she told us that swine flu had already been reported in the area. She was the third person to share her fears with us on a possible outbreak.



RELIEF DISTRIBUTION EFFORTS



The relief distribution effort is a story that is running on two separate tracks at the moment – urban and rural.



When we returned to Kathmandu we noticed that the camp site we visited on Apr 28 had been transformed into a professionally managed campsite by the army. Latrines had been freshly dug on one side of the camp and fresh water sources had been established at the other.



Water being distributed in Kathmandu. (Photo: Steve Clark)

Instead of ad-hoc tarpaulins the camp now featured best-quality army tents. It was cleaned twice daily and the residents, which now numbered 2,000 to 2,500 instead, of the 5,000 we had seen a few days earlier, were given regular food and water rations.



All this of course, contrasted sharply with the situation in the countryside.





Villagers receive food aid from a private company.

Aid workers told us time and again that tarpaulins, medicines and water will be the most crucial relief supplies. Now it is just a question of getting it to all of Nepal and not just the capital city.
</text>