<url>
http://www.journal-news.com/news/news/middletown-woman-among-those-in-nepal-during-earth/nk8gW/
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Middletown woman among those in Nepal during earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A Middletown couple are living “a very mixed life right now.”

While Dr. Les Dornon and his wife, Debbie, are enjoying visiting family and friends in Middletown during their stay, their hearts — and a part of their family — are back in Tansen, located 200 miles west of Kathmandu, capital of Nepal. That region was devastated by a 7.8-magnitude earthquake on April 25 that left more than 7,000 people dead and twice that many injured.

Their daughter, Hannah, 23, a 2010 Middletown High School graduate, was in her music classroom in the Kathmandu International Study Center on April 25 when the earthquake hit. Her mother said Hannah heard the earthquake before she felt it, and her first reaction was to grab a new guitar. Now, her mother said, Hannah gets an “anxious feeling” every time she hears rumbling or an airplane.

Hannah wasn’t injured in the earthquake and school was set to resume Monday, her mother said.

Even before they heard of the devastation in Nepal, the Dornons were informed that Hannah was safe by daughter, Rachel, 27, a 2005 MHS graduate, who got a text message from her sister.

“We were very thankful we heard that before we went online and saw the pictures and heard the numbers,” Debbie Dornon said.

She and her husband have communicated with Hannah through Skype.

“We have put our kids into God’s hands,” she said. “He is taking care of them.”

Debbie Dornon said a massive earthquake has been predicted for the region for years. When they arrived there as missionaries in 1990, they were told earthquakes hit about every 70 to 80 years, and the last one occurred 80 years ago.

In preparation, the Dornons and other missionaries prepared “earthquake barrels” that are filled with emergency supplies — drinking water, snacks, gloves, and crow bars — and placed outside residences so they don’t get buried under the rubble.

The Dornons served as missionaries in United Mission Hospital, a 165-bed medical facility in Tansen, from 1990 to 2002, then returned to Middletown from 10 years. During that time, Dr. Dornon, who grew up in Japan, the son of missionaries, worked as a family physician in Waynesville, at Urgent Care in Middletown and volunteered to care for those living at Hope House, Middletown’s homeless shelter.

They returned to the region in 2012 and Dr. Dornon serves as a family physician and medical superintendent at United Mission Hospital. He cares for patients and teaches resident doctors. Debbie Dornon said the hospital wasn’t damaged by the earthquake and doctors from there have been sent out into the field to assist with the thousands who are injured.

In Tansen, Debbie Dornon serves as an ex-patriot service officer, assisting foreigners who volunteer and work in the hospital with their housing arrangements.

They came back to Middletown in March, and have been visiting area churches, talking about their missionary work. They’re supposed to return to Tansen July 13 for another three-year missions commitment.
</text>