<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150504/jsp/calcutta/story_18024.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Calcuttans recount dream trail & quake horror
</headline>

<text>
Gaurav Agarwala and Nikhil Poddar (second and third from left, standing) and his team at the Everest Base Camp. (Below) The tent town at the base camp. Many of the tents were flattened following the April 25 earthquake Nikhil Poddar is yet to come to terms with the fact that the tiny township of tents he was marvelling at on a sunny afternoon a fortnight ago is now a zone of death and devastation. For the 37-year-old city businessman, the yellow, red and blue tents represented much more than the endpoint of a 10-day dream trek in the Nepal Himalayas: that he reached them meant he had fulfilled his cherished goal of trekking to the Everest base camp. Beyond the tents, between mountain walls taller than skyscrapers, stretched a gigantic glacier field of ice, riddled with crevices and dotted with towering and tottering columns. This was the Khumbu icefall, where last year an avalanche had claimed the lives of 16 sherpas. But death was far from Poddar's mind as he clicked pictures and exchanged high-fives with his trekking buddies. "It's a place where one would want to go back again and again and I was already planning my next trip in that region," recounted the trekker sitting in his BBD Bag office. "It's hard to think that a place so beautiful has transformed in this manner," he added after a pause. "At one level we felt grateful that we were not there on April 25 when the earthquake struck. But on the other level we feel so miserable to know that the entire place with such wonderful and peace-loving people has turned into an area of devastation." The 7.8 magnitude earthquake triggered avalanches that flattened a large part of the Everest base camp, killing at least 17 mountaineers who were camping in the colourful tents. "You know you have reached the Everest base camp when you see hundreds of tents pitched on rocks alongside the Khumbu icefall. It is a unique place surrounded by mountains but has full Wi-fi connectivity. The infrastructure is quite superb," Poddar said. "There is an emergency room of the Himalayan Rescue Association that provides medical facilities to expedition climbers. There are also tent-based toilets and facilities to take a hot shower." The tents are smaller than "the size of a small car". They can give protection from sun, rain, snow and a fair amount of wind but not from "huge gusts of wind or heavy objects including stones". To reach the base camp, which is at an altitude of about 17,500ft, Poddar and 12 other EBC first-timers, led by his cousin Gaurav Agarwala, had started their trek on April 2 from Lukla, where they flew from Kathmandu in a 16-seater plane. The landing on the tiny runway surrounded by mountains was "heart stopping", recounted the businessman. Each day, the trekkers would walk five to six hours. The weather throughout was clear with bright sunshine making the days pleasant. The nights, however, though starry, were cold. The rhododendrons were in full bloom initially but beyond the tree line, the terrain became rugged. "Closer to the base camp, the terrain is extremely rocky without any defined path." Mountaineers spend months at the base camp every summer, travelling back and forth between higher camps for acclimatisation, before making the summit push. The camps were about "100 metres away" from the point till which trekkers are allowed. "Mt Everest cannot be seen from the base camp as the view is blocked by another mountain. We could only hang around for 25-30 minutes as we had to return to Gorakshep, the last halt before the base camp, before nightfall," Poddar said. His relief at the safe passage back home is tinged with grief. "The biggest irony is that just a few days back we were there and felt miserable about leaving that region, and today, we cant imagine getting stuck there." Poddar and his trekking mates have got in touch with the sherpas who had accompanied them to assure them of help. He feels the sherpas would be the worst hit by the disaster as it has happened in the middle of the peak mountaineering season.
</text>