<url>
http://www.belfastlive.co.uk/news/belfast-news/young-woman-caught-up-nepal-9180278
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Young woman caught up in Nepal disaster vows to raise cash for stricken people and return to the country soon
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A young Northern Ireland woman caught up in the Nepal earthquake disaster has vowed to raise money to help fund relief efforts before returning to the stricken country.

Amy Webster touched down in Belfast just over a week after the tragedy which killed more than 7,000 people and injured thousands more.

The Derry woman had been on her way to Everest Base Camp but had turned back after her boyfriend fell ill.

Had they trekked on they could have been caught in a huge avalanche which killed at least 18 people.

Belfast Live revealed how Amy (24) helped Amanda Holden's sister, Debbie, phone home in the aftermath of the earthquake to tell her worry family she was okay.

Amy flew into Belfast on Monday afternoon to spend some time with her parents.

She described the earthquake as terrifying and revealed she feared she was going to die.

Amy said she was relieved to be back in Northern Ireland, adding there were several aftershocks as she left the Nepalese capital Kathmandu.

And she has vowed to go back soon.

She told Belfast Live: "It was scary.

"I'm just glad to be back on solid ground today and not having to worry about aftershocks.

"I'd very mixed feelings about leaving Nepal because I felt awful about leaving the Nepalese people.

"They are the nicest, most friendly people you could meet and it seemed so unfair that should happen to them."

She added: "I'm hoping to do some fundraising in the next few weeks because they are in dire need of food and water supplies.

"We had planned to stay until the middle of the June and travel round but it wasn't safe and with all the food shortages we didn't want to be a burden on resources as well.

"We'll definitely being going back in the future.

"We can't wait to get back and spend time with the Nepalese people."

Amy and boyfriend Ryan Lloyd Davies had been trekking in Nepal for several weeks before the earthquake.

Amy's parents were waiting for her on arrival at Belfast International Airport earlier.

Her mum Bernie said: "It's absolutely delightful to have her back.

"Her and her boyfriend will gather themselves then head back. It's been a life-changing event for them.

"I don't think you can experience something like that and not have your life changed in some way.

"She's in remarkably good form."

In the aftermath of the disaster, Amy helped the sibling of one of the UK's best-known faces.

Amanda Holden appeared on national TV shortly after the earthquake saying her sister “is with a friend and I think they have hooked up with another girl called Amy, I’m not sure of her surname, but we have Amy’s telephone number who my sister has managed to send a text to my mother and me from saying she is safe”.

Debbie Holden, who is a diving instructor in Thailand, met Amy and Ryan on their way to Base Camp.

Rescue efforts are continuing in Nepal following the disaster.

The region is still experiencing large tremors, sparking fears of further collapses and landslides.

Troops and emergency aircraft from the United States arrived in Nepal over the weekend to help relief efforts.

The EU envoy to Nepal, Rensje Teerink, said on Friday that the whereabouts of 1,000 EU citizens was still unknown.

A special vigil took place at Belfast City Hall last Tuesday to remember those who lost their lives.
</text>