<url>
http://www.tylerpaper.com/TP-News+Local/219019/nepal-resident-in-east-texas-worries-about-homeland
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal resident in East Texas worries about homeland
</headline>

<text>
Anup Bhandari learned of the quaking in his homeland almost immediately, but when the first news began trickling in on social media, he wasn't afraid.

"It goes on all the time. I thought it was minor," he said.

It wasn't.

The earthquake that struck Nepal recently had a magnitude of 7.8, the largest and most destructive there in 80 years.

Authorities in the capital city of Kathmandu, which largely is in ruins, have put the death toll in excess of 7,000 and fear many more casualties.

Bhandari, who came to America in 2000 to study at Kilgore College, learned of the severity of the earthquake a day after it occurred.

"A lot of people didn't know. They just saw those few pictures of things and walls collapsed. The next day, we started hearing of a lot of people dying, how their houses collapsed. That was the story," Bhandari said. "It was some- thing I didn't expect. Shocking. It makes me sad to see all the situation and stuff on the news."

With the death toll rising and images of the devastation flooding the Internet, the artist takes comfort in the knowledge his family is OK.

"My sister is with her family in Kathmandu," he said. At first, "I couldn't get a hold of them because there was no phone for two days. We had to do it online, on Facebook. They said that everybody's fine, that they were safe.

In his hometown of Hetauda, "My mom said there was a lot of damage, but it's not like bad, like a lot of places."

'I want to do something right now.'

Bhandari is a passionate philanthropist in East Texas and beyond, says his friend and admirer Charla Rolph. She wasn't surprised to see the artist quickly list two large paintings for auction online with the proceeds to benefit relief efforts in Nepal.

The devastation touched Rolph as well.

"Saturday morning I woke up to find numerous texts and emails that the earthquake in Nepal had occurred," she explained. They came from friends in Oregon and Florida, fellow sponsors of students through the Bright Futures Foundation, which founded the Bhotechaur Health Clinic in 2003. "We all just wept. We have become close personal friends with so many families in Nepal. It hit closer to home for us because of our personal relationships with students and business owners and villagers."

Rolph traveled to Nepal with a group of other sponsors just five months ago.

Their friends, she said, are safe.

"We just heard from the last one Tuesday," Rolph explained, but "Not only do they not have electricity, they don't have water, they don't have food, they don't have Internet. No blankets. It's just chaos, and they're sleeping out in the streets for fear of returning to their homes."

Unsurprisingly, the future is unclear in the face of the ongoing tragedy.

"What happens next is anybody's guess. You're not talking normal circumstances. The people are very fearful that the government is corrupt, and we've been advised not to donate money through that but try to be discerning about which organization's we contribute to."

Bhandari has directed donations to SEBS, the Society of Ex-Budhanilkantha Students. Formed in 1982, the 501(C) (3) volunteer organization's North American branch is based in Virginia, its home base in Kathmandu.

Online, the group is accepting donations through sebsonline.org.

With widespread anxiety about other organizations and alleged government corruption, when it comes to SEBS, "I trust them," Bhandari said. "That's all the young generation. They are really working, they've tracked down everything" to ensure donations are received by the people who really need them."

He's desperate to help.

"I want to do something right now," Bhandari said, locked in to news feeds: "When you see, I just feel like doing something physically, like helping. It just makes me sad every time I see Facebook and news.

That said, "It also makes you feel good, everybody from all over the world are uniting to help."

'It's a matter of time.'

Kilgore residents have the opportunity to join that effort.

A local coalition of individuals, businesses and organizations is developing a mid- June fundraiser for Nepal (see separate story, inset), bridging the more than 8,000 mile gap between Kilgore and Kathmandu through an '8280' campaign kicking off June 11.

Bhandari says he's grateful for the support.

"So many people were calling me and asking if everything was OK," he said.

One painting sold online for $500 -- the art is headed to Fruitvale, the funds to Nepal.

Mayor Ronnie Spradlin isn't at all surprised to see Bhandari spearheading fundraising and joining with other relief efforts. Nor is he surprised to see people stepping up to assist their friend from Nepal -- Bhandari is an active volunteer with numerous organizations, a regular contributor to local fundraising efforts and a champion of helping homeless individuals in East Texas.

"Apart from knowing him personally, I've seen what he has done in Gregg County to come to the aid of the homeless," Spradlin emphasized. In January 2013, he proclaimed 'Anup Bhandari Day' in the City of Kilgore. "Any charity that asks for his help, he donates a painting to help raise money for their causes."

Right now, Bhandari cautioned, large physical donations are reportedly getting mired in-transit. He's currently collecting requested medical supplies and small necessities for a FedEx shipment.

So many people are still in need, he said.

Due to the terrain and devastation, "It has been difficult to be reached by the rescue effort," Bhandari explained, but he takes hope in occasional stories, survivors including a 4-month-old child recovered days after the earthquake, buried in rubble. "It's going to be a long time and Kathmandu is not going to be the same. It was beautiful, all the buildings, so many have gone down.

"It's a matter of time."






</text>