<url>
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-how-the-regional-rivalry-between-china-and-india-has-spilled-over-into-the-international-rescue-effort-10224298.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: How the regional rivalry between China and India has spilled over into the international rescue effort
</headline>

<text>
The competition for influence between China and India has spilled over into rescue efforts in the Himalayan earthquake zone – but the teams say politics must be left to one side for now

There were the Chinese on Monday, the Turks on Tuesday, Indians on Wednesday and the Thais on Saturday. In between, there had been Tibetan monks and a group of Sikh social workers.

Nepal’s terrible earthquake killed more than a hundred people in Sankhu and damaged or destroyed 90 per cent of the town’s homes. But Sankhu’s shattered streets have also hosted a multinational humanitarian force, from countries and groups that are not so much in coalition as in competition on the international stage.

There is no doubting the need for help. Row after row of shattered and broken buildings line the streets in this town 20 miles from Kathmandu. Officials maintain that all the dead have been recovered from under the collapsed buildings; but residents deny that is the case. And there lingers in the air the sickly-sweet smell of decomposing bodies under the rubble.

Powerful earthquake hits Nepal







44 show all Powerful earthquake hits Nepal





















































































1/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Victims of the earthquake are cremated at Pashupatinah Temple in Kathmandu Getty Images

2/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman prays at a temple in Kathmandu damaged by the earthquake AP

3/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police push back residents who began protesting after waiting for hours in line to board buses back to towns and villages Getty

4/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese policeman guards a collapsed building in Kathmandu. The number of people killed in the earthquake has passed 5,000 according to official figures EPA

5/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A woman stands in silence in front of the historic Bal Krishna Thapa Chhetry temple in Kathmandu, which was been damaged by the earthquake EPA

6/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers from Japan in the centre of Kathmandu; they are facing a race against time to find survivors Getty

7/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Pallets of Australian aid (blankets, tarpaulins, hygiene kits and water purification tablets) are loaded onto a No. 36 Squadron C-17A Globemaster aircraft in preparation for delivery to Nepal Getty Images

8/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rishi Khanal is rescued after being trapped in a collapsed building in Nepal’s capital following Saturday’s earthquake Reuters

9/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Villagers shelter from rain in the Gorkha district, north-west of Kathmandu; 10 days of rain are forecast, with tens of thousands of people sleeping outdoors AFP/Getty

10/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal Reuters

11/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search through the rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hundreds of thousands of Nepalis spent another night in the open after a massive quake which killed more than 4,000 AFP/Getty

12/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A priest prepares a fire for the cremation of an earthquake victim at Pashupati cremation center in Kathmandu, Nepal. The official death toll from the magnitude 7.8 earthquake has risen to 5,057 people EPA

13/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha AFP/Getty

14/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A satellite image showing a part of the city's historic center, left, before the 25 April 2015 earthquake and the after effects, right EPA

15/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman and her daughter receive medical treatment after arriving at Dhading hospital, in the aftermath of the earthquake, in Dhading Besi

16/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman mourns in front of her destroyed home in the Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

17/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Earthquake victims collect belongings and salvage food items from a destroyed building after a major earthquake, Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

20/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured boy sleeps on the ground outside the overcrowded Dhading hospital in Dhading Besi

21/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Members of a rescue team from China huddle while planning their operation at the site of earthquake in Kathmandu

22/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Local people gather at the top of large mound where once stood a temple to view the scene of devastation in Kathmandu

23/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People pray before cremating the body of a victim of the earthquake, along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal

24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

27/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian resident Santosh (2L) is met by relatives after being evacuated following an earthquake in Nepal at the railway station in Amritsar

28/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A helicopter prepares to rescue people from camp 1 and 2 at Everest Base Camp, Nepal

29/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People carry a woman from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

30/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a living man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal EPA

31/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A man struggles to free himself from under the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

32/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

33/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Dust can be seen over the city during an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

34/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A building stands damaged after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015 AP

35/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese people walk past a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

36/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured man is assisted after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

37/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

38/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese health workers carry injured people into an open area following an 7.9 earthquake, at Lalitpur on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

39/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian bystanders look at a collapsed house following an earthquake, in Siliguri on April 25, 2015 AFP/Getty Images

40/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers help with rescue work at the site of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

41/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

42/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building, after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

43/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu GETTY

44/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Health workers take care of injured people outside the Manmohan Memorial Community Hospital after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

Local people have watched the Chinese in red uniforms, the Turks in black, the Thais in royal blue and the Indians in olive combats, come and go. The monks in brown robes and the Sikhs from Delhi with their flowing beards have stayed on longer, the latter setting up a field kitchen and distributing daily meals.

“We don’t think we’ll see anyone for very long. But we are grateful they have taken the trouble to come from their homelands to help. Our concern is about our government,” said Harishar Shestra, whose home has been demolished. “All the aid is coming from foreign countries, from aid organisations. Our officials do the distribution, but it is bad; one family gets things, the ones next door nothing, there is no organisation, we would like the foreigners to do this, they would be better, more efficient.”

His neighbour, Manoj Kartick, suspected the motives of the foreigners were not entirely altruistic. “The Chinese and the Indians are big rivals and they are using this aid in their rivalry, spread their influence, which is good for us, of course,” he said.

“The Thais and the Chinese have some disputes, don’t they, in the seas? The Sikhs are Indians, but wasn’t there trouble between them and the government? The Chinese drove out the monks from Tibet. Now the Turks, I don’t know about them.”

The monks, whose humanitarian work is being organised by Dr Tsering Puntsok, who runs a free medical clinic, were from the Benchen monastery, a Buddhist temple complex in Kathmandu valley. The original Benchen monastery was in Tibet. It was destroyed by the Chinese army in 1959.

One of the monks said: “I am too young to remember, but yes, my father’s generation had trouble with the Communist government. It can still be difficult for religious people, of course – that is why the Dalai Lama is in exile, in India.” The Chinese emergency team did not want to get involved in controversial history. “We were ordered to come here to help the Nepalese, and that is what we are doing, it is not about politics,” said one rescue worker.

The Indian government had fought a bloody insurgent war in the past with Sikh separatists, severely damaging the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the holiest shrine in the Sikh religion, during the conflict. However, at the kitchen where local people line up for lunch and dinner, Kuldip Singh, from Delhi, one of the volunteers, insisted: “Yes, it happened, there was violence, but that’s all in the past, we’re here to help the Nepalese on behalf of fellow Indians.”

Teams of Korean NGO 'Human in Love' and Oman's national search and rescue team pay their respects to the body of a victim

But the perception of rivalry between the two Asian giants over the Nepal earthquake is very much present. Chinese journalists have asked why their government did not deploy its large air force to evacuate 8,000 Chinese who were stranded for days, pointing out that the Indians had taken out not just their nationals, but from those of 15 other countries. Beijing’s decision to use civilian planes was also criticised amid reports that the airlines had demanded exorbitant prices.

Hong Lei, a foreign ministry spokesman in Beijing, said: “China and India are neighbours to Nepal. We would like to work together and co-ordinate positively with India our assistance efforts to help Nepal rebuild its homeland.”

The Indian media, meanwhile, reported that China has sent armed police for rescue operations in Nepal, pointing out that it was the first time that the force had ventured beyond its borders. It was described as a “significant move” which came at the request of the Nepalese government, with the implication that Beijing has won a round in the influence battle.

There was also endorsement for China from the head of the UN Development Programme in Nepal, the former New Zealand premier Helen Clark, who said after meeting officials in Beijing that China has been “a very good neighbour” in the crisis with its humanitarian mission.

Beijing has sent around 200 military personnel to Nepal. The US will have twice that many over the coming weeks. The Americans deny that they are late on the scene. Brigadier General Paul Kennedy said: “We don’t want to bull our way in just because we’re ready.” He said US forces would be on the spot “when they asked for us to come and they were ready to receive us”.

The US Marines will bring three Huey and 10 Osprey helicopters and a team which will grow to around 420.

“We are bringing in significant capacity,” General Kennedy said. The US team will include air force experts based on Guam who can control air traffic, repair airfields and offload supplies with heavy equipment.
</text>