<url>
http://www.king5.com/story/news/local/seattle/2015/05/03/online-community-gathers-life-saving-gear-for-nepal/26847583/
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Online community gathers life-saving gear for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A local group, many who have climbed in Nepal, started packing duffel bags Sunday to send to the country. (Photo: Josh Green, KING 5)

SEATTLE - Tap Richards' Seattle home looked more like a base camp Sunday. The tents, sleeping bags and tarps that a community had given these last days, unconditionally, were spread across the front yard and porch. Slowly Tap and people he had met through social media communities sorted through it all with a relief mission in mind. Destination: Nepal.

From our little corner of the world and the people we know – this is how we're starting it. Brent Bishop, climber/guide



"They're – in my mind having traveled extensively – some of the most warm-hearted unselfish just magnificent people out there," said Richards, who is a climber and guide when he's not running his on furniture making business. "It's going to get used."

It all started through a gifting network on social media. An extended community used a campaign through The Buy Nothing Project, part of a sharing economy, and their own Facebook pages to ask for help from those people flying to Nepal or shipping things there.

"We're just matching up people from all over the U.S. - anyone who has a valid reason to go to Nepal: doctors, nurses, some Nepalese returning home to help," said Julie Hill, a climber and freelance copy editor from Shoreline. "What we don't want are people who just want to hop on a plane and don't have a connection to an organization already."

The group has a team of Himalayan climbers, scientists, doctors and mountaineering agencies on the ground in Kathmandu working to get aid to those who need it. In the meantime, they're working with airlines to clear baggage fees for those flying to Nepal.

By Sunday, the community collected more than 20 duffel bags filled with goods for the country devastated by last month's earthquake.

A Seattle community, many of whom are climbers, have come together to collect aid for Nepal. (Photo: Josh Green, KING 5 News)

"From our little corner of the world and the people we know – this is how we're starting it," said Brent Bishop, who has climbed Everest twice. "This aid effort is going to go on for months and months – if not years."

Bishop said his family has been connected to Nepal since 1960. His father was a climber. His mother led treks to Nepal since '63.

"So it's a home away from home," Bishop said. "We've got a network on the ground – these guys are coordinating and this is surgically going to get to these marginalized villages that were neglected before the earthquake."

Many in this group have seen it first-hand. Climbers often find themselves giving things away to the local after their treks. As they packed these duffel bags, Tap Richards remembered how appreciative the Nepalese people have been during his past trips.

"Hand them a water bottle – even if the lid doesn't work anymore or something like that … you come back 2 years later and you might see that same guy in his … house drinking tea out of it," he said. "It's like – that's the water bottle I gave that guy two years ago. He's using it and he's used it every day since I gave it to him."

If you're interested in connecting with the group you can email the following addresses: BNP4Nepal@gmail.com or carry2nepal@gmail.com.
</text>