<url>
http://www.sun-sentinel.com/florida-jewish-journal/news/palm/fl-jjps-nepal-0506-20150504-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Relief efforts set up to assist in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
After a devastating earthquake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale hit the poor, mountainous South Asian country of Nepal on Saturday, April 25 — killing more than 5,000 people — Jewish humanitarian and governmental organizations are doing more than their fare share of helping relief efforts for the crisis.

The 260-member Israeli government mission to Nepal includes an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) field hospital, a trained rescue team, and a security team — with the main objectives of assisting the Nepalese people and evacuating Israeli citizens who are stranded in the country.

The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) — which has provided relief to dozens of natural disaster zones over the last century — said it is partnering with the IDF field hospital in Katmandu (Nepal's capital and largest city) by providing equipment.

JDC said that while it does provide immediate aid, it is also laying the foundation for longer-term relief efforts in Nepal.

The Jewish Federations of North America (JFNA) is raising funds for the JDC's relief efforts in Nepal, as it has done in the past for natural and manmade disasters in locations such as the Philippines, Haiti and Japan.

In South Florida, each one of the local Federations has its own "Nepal Relief Fund," in partnership with the JFNA, to provide:

•Medical equipment and emergency supplies for professionals on the ground.

•Food, water and sanitation for children and families.

•Shelter for those living in disaster areas.

In northern Palm Beach County, Lynn Kaston, a member of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County's Israel & Global Initiatives committee, stated: "Providing humanitarian aid for those affected by disaster is a central component of who we are as a people. As a community, we have a shared commitment to upholding the Jewish value of tikkun olam ("repairing the world") and ensuring food, clean water, shelter and medicine for victims of this catastrophic earthquake."

For more information about the JFPBC's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.jewishpalmbeach.org, or call 561-478-0700.

In southern Palm Beach County, Matthew C. Levin, president and CEO of the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, stated: "Our community's thoughts and prayers are with the people of Nepal, and all victims of the devastating earthquake, as once again we rise to contribute to immediate humanitarian aid with profound compassion and generosity. As always, our Federation stands ready to help our community join Israel and Jews worldwide in the face of such catastrophic events. At times like these, our shared commitment to tikkun olam finds its deepest expression and its greatest power."

For more information about the JFSPBC's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.jewishbocaorg, or call 561-852-3100.

In Broward County, Bruce Yudewitz, chief operating officer of the Jewish Federation of Broward County, stated: "Our Federation is facilitating collection of funds for relief and recovery for the victims of the earthquake in Nepal. One-hundred percent of the funds we collect will be forwarded to the JFNA to be fully disbursed to the relief efforts in Nepal. Our overseas partners include the Jewish Agency and the JDC, which have a long track record in assisting in relief efforts after national disasters. They work closely with local NGOs and government organizations to maximize the short-and long-term relief efforts."

Yudewitz continued: "As a member of the JFNA Emergency Response committee, which is responsible for how the funds are used, I know the care we take in reviewing the requests for funds from our overseas partners and their recommendations for support of the local organizations."

For more information about the JFBC's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.jewishbroward.org, or contact Alida O'Toole at aotoole@jewishbroward.org or 954-252-6906.

In Miami-Dade County, Jacob Solomon, president/chief operating officer of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation, stated: "Jewish tradition instructs us on the infinite value of every human life. As such, I have always been inspired to see how the Jewish community responds to natural disasters like the recent earthquake in Nepal. People seem to know that to be a Jew means to actively participate in the rebuilding and recovery process, no matter who the victims may be."

For more information about the GMJF's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.jewishmiami.org, or call 305-576-4000.

Other prominent U.S. Jewish organizations that have their own "Nepal Relief Funds" include American Friends of Magen David Adom (AFMDA) — Israel's disaster, ambulance and blood-services provider — and B'nai B'rith International (an advocate for global Jewry and international human rights since 1843).

For more information about AFMDA's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.afmda.org/emergency, or call 866-632-2763.

For more information about B'nai B'rith's "Nepal Relief Fund," or to make a donation, visit http://www.bnaibrith.org, or call 800-573-9057.
</text>