<url>
http://www.964eagle.co.uk/news/local-news/1602598/memorial-for-victims-of-nepal-earthquake-in-aldershot/
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Memorial for victims of Nepal earthquake in Aldershot
</headline>

<text>
7:00am 4th May 2015

Eight days since a huge earthquake devastated Nepal, Aldershot will remember the dead.

Rushmoor's Nepalese community is holding a prayer meeting at 2pm at the Shiva Community Centre.

Many families in the area have been left heartbroken by the disaster as their loved ones live out there.

Maya Lama's parents lived just outside the capital Kathmandu in a village, while she lives in Aldershot.

Her mum died when their family home was flattened in the quake:

"Every Saturday I call her at 6.30pm, but this Saturday I didn't call her.

I really regret it, because if I'd have called her, maybe she would've come out of the house.

If she'd have come out somehow, then maybe I would have my mum today, alive."

Whole villages wiped out

While Baivab Khadka lives in Farnborough, his family in Kathmandu.

They are safe, but he knows many others who have died:

"My aunt told me about one of the districts in Nepal, 2,000 people are buried, they're gone, unaccounted for.

To see the iconic pictures that resembles Nepal, those were flattened and to see that it absolutely broke my heart."

The death toll of the disaster has hit over 6,000, but it is thought this will keep rising as rescuers reach more remote villages.

The Red Cross has said some communities near the epicentre of the earthquake in Gorkha have suffered near complete devastation.

Last Monday 10 Hampshire firefighters were on a plane to Kathmandu.

They expected to spend a week trying to rescue people in the rubble, but it is now known they will be there for at least another seven days.

Andy Bowers is Assistant Chief Fire Officer for Hampshire Fire and Rescue:

"There is little or nothing that can prepare you for the reality of being in an earthquake zone.

So whilst in the fire and rescue we are used to seeing things that other people don't on a regular basis, the magnitude of an earthquake is entirely different again."

Praying for the thousands of victims

Nepalese communities in Surrey and Hampshire have been rallying together to raise money and provide supplies for victims.

Today they will come together in their grief to pray for their loved ones.

Major Dewan is the President of the Greater Rushmoor Nepali Community:

"Shock would be the least I can say, but our people are very resilient.

They are used to suffering and hardship.

I think in three of four weeks time, we will know the real damage."

Find out how you can help the earthquake relief effort in Surrey and Hampshire
</text>