<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/life-style/home-property/68259674/how-to-build-a-house-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
How to: build a house in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
How to: build a house in Nepal

Prabin Man Singh, Oxfam Whole villages were decimated in the 7.8 magnitude quake on April 25.

With so many lives lost and so many more without a home after the devastating earthquake in Nepal, it seemed callous to be talking about building our house.

So this week I talked to a few New Zealand charities with bases in Nepal, engineers with experience in the area and a friend of a friend who has built many a house in remote Nepalese villages to get a little insight into how the rebuild process might start to unfold there.

The situation now



Let's not sugar coat it - whole villages have been decimated.



Many of the images flooding into the world's media come from the Kathmandu area, a relatively built-up centre. But in the remote areas the situation is even worse.



Nima Sherpa, a friend of a friend who has settled in New Zealand, has heard from everyone in his village, about a day and a half's trek off the Everest trail, and only six houses were damaged.



But his wife's nephew has seen a village close by where only seven people survived and very little is left standing.

Aubrey Wade, Oxfam With the start of Nepal's monsoon season a month away, robust shelters are going to be needed very soon.

Oxfam can verify that that's not an isolated case. In the Gorkha villages, one of the five areas Oxfam New Zealand is involved in, 80 per cent of houses are destroyed and most people have been forced to live and sleep outside.

"This is not sustainable, especially for the sick, elderly and children. Women - especially those who are pregnant or breast-feeding - are desperate for private spaces to wash and bathe, while rudimentary sanitation systems have been wrecked," said Oxfam India's humanitarian programme manager Andrio Naskar, speaking from Gorkha.

How can you even think of rebuilding in the midst of that?



Right now, Nepal is in response mode – this means, of course, looking after people first.



Oxfam and other aid organisations are concentrating on providing vital water, sanitation and health and hygiene materials right now. But with the start of Nepal's monsoon season a month away, robust shelters are going to be needed - fast.



"Locally-sourced wood is available for beams and people are already planning to use debris to rebuild. We will do our best to help people as fast as possible but the terrain and subsequent travel challenges this poses are against us," Naskar said.



Will new new builds come out of this?



When I started thinking about the enormity of Nepal's rebuild, I wondered if new technologies might come to the fore.



Could someone 3D print a village? Or drop a bunch of containers both with prefab or flat pack pieces inside and then turn those containers into the sometimes luxurious dwellings that grace our home and property magazines?



Andy Thompson, Oxfam's Sanitation and Hygiene Adviser, conceded that maybe that might happen: "It's horrendous, tragic, but from tragedy might come opportunity."



But the problem of course is access and materials. Even though 3D printing a house seems like making something from nothing, the "nothing" construction material needs to be readily available and with a six to seven day trek to bring in a bag of cement, it's prohibitively expensive for most locals to be part of. Getting a container in is almost impossible, too.



Much of the terrain is terraced, possibly unstable now and there just aren't the cargo helicopters available to drop that sort of material off.



The two biggest issues facing rebuild in Nepal then are simple: cost and accessibility.



The Himalayan Trust's General Manager, Prue Smith, had got off a plane from Kathmandu the night before I spoke to her and conceded there is going to have to be plenty of thinking on how to rebuild many of the schools they've set up that have been destroyed.



Coordination with other organisations and government will be key and so too will working through whether the land they can rebuild on is stable – a learning from the aftershocks of Christchurch's big shakes.



While shelter needs to happen now, long-term facilities such as hospitals and schools are going to be harder to re-establish quickly on such a big scale.

Shristi Rajbhandari The two biggest issues facing rebuild in Nepal are cost and accessibility.

So, what next?

Because the internet is what it is, there is a draft document floating around online that promises a strategy for post-earthquake Nepal, but all I can really glean from it is that there will be a "build back better" policy in place.

Dr Richard Sharpe, of BECA, noted in a recent opinion piece that this is the great hope for Nepal.

The local National Society for Earthquake Technology has doggedly taken the message to their government and the Nepal public about both the need for disaster mitigation and preparedness for responding on the day. Sharpe's team also produced a building code that not only covered modern high-rise buildings, but provided rules-of-thumb for typical less formal buildings and guidelines for the improvement of about 100 types of rural houses across the country.

When we spoke, however, Sharpe could only hope that all that work was getting into the hands of the right people fast enough.

Nima Sherpa, for example, has never heard of it. When the walls of one of the village houses fell down, the villagers put them back up, using the very same materials and techniques.

A house will take 10 to 15 people 20 days to build and is free because it's made from what is at hand. So with the fact that helicopters are sometimes getting to villages but aren't even able to land, this is the most likely rebuild scenario. The hope, of course, is that as aid money starts getting to Nepal, some of the "build back better" principles will, too. Fingers crossed.

You can click on these links to help Oxfam New Zealand's efforts and the Himalayan Trust's school rebuild program.

MORE ABOUT MICHELE'S NEW HOUSE BUILD:

* Introducing the family and the build

* How to price a new build

* How to find a builder

* How to get resource consent

* How to work around rain

* How to: concrete foundations

* How to: build an outside office

* How to: sell your own property

* How we sold our house by ourselves

* The truths of building: you're bound to change your mind

* Timber framing goes up

* How to cope with the stress of building a house

* A baby, an apple tree & a broken arm

* Where does a roof shout come from?

- Michele Powles is a writer and mother of a Lego engineer and destruction specialist. You can read more about their New Build Love over at buildingboxes.co.nz or on Facebook.

Head to our Facebook page for more from Stuff Life & Style

- Stuff
</text>