<url>
http://www.marketwatch.com/story/international-needs-canada-launches-campaign-to-raise-50000-for-earthquake-relief-recovery-and-redevelopment-in-nepal-2015-05-04-14173912
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
International Needs Canada Launches Campaign to Raise $50,000 for Earthquake Relief, Recovery and Redevelopment in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
BURLINGTON, ON, May 04, 2015 (Marketwired via COMTEX) -- In the wake of the recent earthquake in Nepal, International Needs Canada is launching a campaign to raise $50,000 to rebuild the homes and livelihoods of victims of the disaster. This includes providing relief and recovery assistance for 12 women who lost family members in the rubble of their remote village homes that were demolished in the disaster while they attended International Needs' Lydia Vocational Training Centre in Kathmandu.

This campaign provides immediate relief for victims of the earthquake, paves the way for their recovery, and strengthens International Needs' sustainable development program that has helped hundreds of vulnerable women and children in Nepal over the last 40 years.

"International Needs Canada will be working through its partner organization in Nepal, focusing resources primarily on assisting those vulnerable women and children who are already participating in our programs," says John Koot, Chair of the Board of Directors of International Needs Canada. "There is urgent need for temporary shelter, food, medicine, and basic supplies. We are also assessing the availability of long term accommodation for our Nepalese staff members who have lost their homes. We are fortunate in having a partner organization in Nepal which has been able to react quickly to events there and thereby have an immediate impact on the lives of the Nepalese people."

In the aftermath of the disaster, Esther Thapa, Executive Director of International Needs Nepal and the Lydia Vocational Training Centre has co-ordinated emergency relief initiatives for staff and all 22 students currently registered at Lydia Vocational Training Centre -- including 12 who lost relatives and homes -- and has travelled by motorbike to assess the damage and plan recovery assistance in Sindupalchowk, one of the hardest hit areas affecting students of Lydia Centre.

"We are devoting our energies to ensuring the safety of each of the hundreds of vulnerable children we sponsor in schools across Nepal. As the effects of the disaster unfold the need to provide food and shelter is paramount as we work towards recovery and normalcy," says Esther Thapa. "We are also seeking ways to assess and meet the immediate needs of Lydia alumni, across Nepal, each of whom is trained to provide leadership, life skills, coping skills and health information in their communities."

Lydia Vocational Training Centre accepts two groups of 22 women each year for 5 months during which they acquire professional level sewing skills, health and nutrition awareness, literacy and numeracy skills which are typically in high demand in remote rural areas of Nepal. At graduation, each woman receives her own sewing machine and commits to teaching 5 other women the skills they were taught at Lydia. The women typically find career success and are able to support their families by working as tailors and seamstresses in their own independent businesses. Over the years, the program has proven itself effective in empowering women in Nepal and protecting them from trafficking and other forms of sexual and economic exploitation.

International Needs Canada's Executive Director David Marshall says raising $50,000 to support the relief, recovery and redevelopment efforts in Nepal is vitally necessary to preserve the progress that the organization has made over the last 40 years of transforming lives and building sustainable communities in Nepal.

"We are committed to supporting our longstanding partners in Nepal as relief activities and their efforts to recover from this disaster and redevelop their communities continues," says David Marshall, who later this year, will be leading a delegation of donors, sponsors and other supporters to the region -- Nepal, India and Bangladesh -- during the Umoja Asia leg of the 2015 Million Dollar Umoja Journey, currently in progress. "As we share in the shock and grief of the tragedy and focus on contributing funds to help displaced people find food and shelter, we are motivated by the challenge of creating new possibilities for sustainably transforming lives and changing communities in Nepal."

International Needs Canada is a 40-year-old, Christian charitable organization that alleviates poverty, protects vulnerable children, empowers women and supports sustainable development initiatives by partnering with indigenous community leaders in developing countries around the world. International Needs Canada currently provides direct financial support to development initiatives in 9 countries and as a founding member of the International Needs Network, supports development efforts in 39 countries around the world.

For more information or to contribute to the Nepal: Relief, Recovery, Redevelopment campaign visit our website at www.internationalneeds.ca.

<strong>For further information contact: </strong>Garth Hardie Manager, Communications and Marketing International Needs Canada 210-4031 Fairview Street Burlington, ON L7L 2A4 Phone: (905) 637-9411 E-mail: garth@internationalneeds.ca

SOURCE: International Needs Canada

mailto:garth@internationalneeds.ca

(C) 2015 Marketwire L.P. All rights reserved.
</text>