<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/05/top-story/operation-maitri-indias-largest-disaster-response-abroad-rae/404844.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Nepal seeks int’l help to rebuild heritage sites
</headline>

<text>
May 5, 2015-

Foreign Minister Mahendra Bahadur Pandey on Monday apprised the Kathmandu-based diplomats on the casualties and damage caused by April 25 earthquake on April and the rescue and relief measures the government was undertaking in coordination with various international teams.

While thanking the international community for their spontaneous and generous support to Nepal at such difficult hour, Pandey said that the response of the international community was encouraging, which was a significant gain and a source of comfort amidst the tragic and unprecedented loss that befell the country.

Focusing on the rescue works, the minister said that a Joint Working Level Team was working round the clock at Tribhuvan International Airport to facilitate the customs clearance of relief materials as per the indicative list of priority items determined by the government. He also said that the Prime Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund would ensure that the funds are utilised only for the search, rescue and relief operations.

Minister Pandey told the member of the diplomatic corps that Nepal government placed high priority on the restoration of the monuments and sites of historical, cultural and archaeological significance and urged the international community to share their expertise and extend necessary cooperation in the process.

He also informed that the government had decided to set up a Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Fund with a target of collecting $2 billion with $200 million as seed money from the government.

With the rescue works coming to an end and the efforts being focused on relief operations, Pandey thanked the rescue teams deployed by over 34 countries for their invaluable assistance, and wished them safe journey back home.

Operation Maitri India’s largest disaster response abroad: Rae

Indian Ambassador Ranjit Rae on Monday briefed the Kathmandu-based diplomatic community on India’s ongoing assistance to Nepal’s earthquake victims.

According to the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu, Rae told heads of foreign missions that the India’s Operation Maitri was by far the largest effort in response to a natural calamity abroad.

“It represented not only the deepest commitment at the highest political level in India but also overwhelming outpouring of support from the people of India and over a dozen Indian states including those bordering Nepal,” the Indian ambassador said.

Rae added that India was ready to offer any support to Nepal within its means. India’s rescue and relief efforts are being closely monitored--as evidenced by visit of Indian national security advisor and its foreign secretary on Saturday--and are also being coordinated with the international community.

According to Rae, India sent the first flight of the Indian Air Force with rescue teams and relief materials within six hours of the earthquake and later sent 32 flights bringing 520 tonnes of relief materials including heavy engineering equipment, ambulances, oxygen generators, field hospitals. The Indian envoy also informed that eight MI 17 and five ALH helicopters of the Indian Army have carried more than 207 tonnes of relief materials, evacuated over 900 injured and transported over 1,700 stranded people of various nationalities.

“More than 2,600 earthquake victims have been treated so far by the Indian medical teams. Out of these, 1,170 have been treated at Barpak, the epicentre of the earthquake.”

Meanwhile, the Indian Embassy handed over 18 trucks loaded with 100 tonnes of relief material and an ambulance with 5,000 blood testing kits received from Uttar Pradesh government for the earthquake victims. to the District Administration Office in Kathmandu.

Published: 05-05-2015 02:00
</text>