<url>
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/world-news/can-nepal-save-riches-beneath-its-ruins/articleshow/47145661.cms
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
Can Nepal save riches beneath its ruins?
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU: Two days after the earthquake had ripped through Nepal , bringing down most of its centuries-old monuments and flattening some of them beyond repair, a few old residents at Durbar Square watched both in helplessness and disbelief as locals pillaged bricks and bits of ancient wood from the Kasthamandap temple, a three-storey shrine from which Kathmandu derives its name. Many feel that though not its most famous monument, this is perhaps the one structure with the greatest historical significance that the country lost.As the death toll on Sunday, eight days after the 7.9-magnitude temblor of April 25, crossed 7,000 and left as many as 14,000 injured in its stretched-to-capacity hospitals, a growing worry among conservationists, temple supervisors and Nepal's still-rattled common people was the vulnerability of its many religious places to loot and exposure to artefact sharks.Walk through Durbar Square, Kathmandu's famous temple and palace complex, and it's easy to spot a divine broken head here, a sacred limb there. A keen eye can glimpse the glint of gold leafing at one place, the dull weight of an ornate wooden beam at another — all out in the cold like the city's population, defenseless and utterly exposed.People have been caught carrying away wooden beams, bells and carved bricks — if someone has surreptitiously taken off with figurines, it hasn't yet been brought to the notice of the government or the archaeology department — and there are others suspiciously milling around collapsed temples with no apparent work or motive.Nepal punches above its weight, housing 8 Unesco world heritage sites — three royal cities and Lumbini, the birthplace of the Buddha among them — and it is not possible for a meagre police force to guard even these zones, let alone the dozens of other ancient temples. Truth be told, there wasn't even need to. Till now.Officials admit that the issue of looting has in the past few days become "immediate and urgent." Bhesh Narayan Dahal, director general, Archaeology Department, said he has requested the police to beef up security at the heritage sites, something high-ranking cops concede is important but can't be done right away. Dahal has also ordered that warning through posters against looting be pasted at all relevant places. Staff members have been asked to visit sites and put artefacts in a museum for safekeeping. Not much, however, has been collected.Though only eight persons have been arrested so far for trying to steal wood carvings with the intention of selling them in the thriving antiques market, a few others have been stopped in their tracks by alert citizens from pocketing artefacts. But it's not going to be an easy task to guard one of the world's largest clusters of heritage sites. On April 27, after a citizen called in to report the theft of a bronze bell, authorities took some of the first steps to secure the ruins better. Notices went up in local dailies, warning robbers of quick action and stringent punishment.Christian Manhart, the head of Unesco's Kathmandu office, was quoted saying, "Nobody is really able to do this — the government not, Unesco not, so I think all have to work together. There are thousands of sites, and we cannot put a policeman or military on each of the sites 24 hours a day. They are needed for other purposes. So it's impossible, as you can imagine." Another top official , Irina Bokova, said in an interview earlier last week that she was unaware of "any natural disaster in modern times that had damaged so much cultural heritage."A Unesco team has now started some kind of a rescue mission to prevent looting of artefacts from quake-ravaged Nepal. Andolfatto, Unesco consultant , said, "We are doing an inventory of stones and terracotta objects that have crumbled due to the earthquake. The first concern for us is to prevent the objects from looting and for this we are trying to get keys of one of the stores at the temple so that we can store these objects." Restoration, he added, would have to come later.According to Unesco, there are seven "monument zones" that include three Durbar squares in Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan, and the four religious sites of Swayambhunath, Bauddhanath, Pashupatinath and Changu Narayan. Almost all of them are in need of protection.Srimal Khatiwada, a 75-year-old who lives in the old quarters of Patan, said he wept when he saw the temples fall. "Our gods have been with us, protected us," he whispered. "We have to safeguard their belongings. They are still our gods." Nepal has a long, tough way to go before its citizens can say they have managed to do that.
</text>