<url>
http://www.orlandosentinel.com/features/blogs/os-how-to-help-nepal-quake-central-florida-post.html
</url>

<date>
20150504
</date>

<headline>
How Central Floridians can help survivors of Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
It's nearly 8,500 miles from Orlando to Kathmandu, but compassion doesn't require a convenient zip code.

Even two weeks after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal April 25, there's hands-on work you can do to help the survivors -- without having to leave Central Florida.

On May 9, a Saturday, Longwood's Northland, A Church Distributed, is partnering with Central Florida's Feeding Children Everywhere and Change This World to put together 330,000 packaged meals for those on the front lines in Nepal and surrounding areas.

Dr. Gretchen Kerr, Northland’s executive director of Compassion and Reconciliation, says it's one of the few acts of volunteerism open to most Central Floridians who want to help.

“They can’t buy a ticket and go to Nepal, but they can show up here and serve,” she says. “It’s a beautiful picture ... entire families coming together in this way.”

According to Marcus Mennenga, executive director at Change This World, starvation and malnutrition threaten to become the leading causes of death over the coming months. “We have the ability to put one of the most needed and requested tools in the hands of our [aid] partners — healthy meals,” he says.

Hundreds of volunteers are needed for the effort, which will take place from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. In you want to help, sign up at Eventbrite.com for a 90-minute shift (or two). Kids as young as 5 are welcome to pitch in, but there's no child care available.

The action takes place at Northland's "The Rink," 530 Dog Track Road, Longwood (32750).

So far, the event is our region's biggest opportunity to volunteer -- without needing a passport -- but other Central Florida charities are focusing their aid on Nepal. Among them:

-- Clean The World, an Orlando-based nonprofit that provides soap and hygiene kits to help prevent the spread of disease, has just sent an initial shipment to Nepal, hoping to reach over 5,000 families living in displacement camps and medical clinics. But more is needed.

"One of the greatest concerns following a catastrophe like this is access to water, sanitation and hygiene," says the charity's chief development officer Sam Stephens. "Amidst the chaos, many of the typical sources of soap have been cut off, leaving families, hospitals and emergency response teams without access to such a vital resource."

You can donate or sign up to volunteer at CleantheWorld.org.

-- The Born2Fly Project, based in Lake Mary, has worked to stop human trafficking of children by educating kids and their parents before the traffickers can reach them. Founder Diane Scimone, an international journalist, has traveled to many of the poorest, more remote places on the planet to spread the word and enlist partner groups to carry on with the mission.

Eighteen months ago, a young woman named Anita trained for the cause in Kathmandu and soon joined the staff of New Light Nepal, Born2Fly's partner agency there.

Scimone says Anita was especially passionate.

"Anita rescued three girls right from the hands of traffickers," she says. "She started Mothers Against Trafficking clubs in remote villages where families had no idea their daughters weren't heading to school in India but being sold into brothels and raped for profit 30 times a night. ... She endured extreme hardships -- and probably not the highest salary in the world."

Last week, Scimone just got word that Anita was among the 7,000 killed by the quake -- and she has vowed to raise $10,000 in Anita's honor. The funds will go to New Light Nepal to carry on the anti-trafficking crusade, needed now more than ever.

"Child traffickers love earthquakes," Scimone writes. "In fact, they love any disaster where families are uprooted, kids are separated from their parents [and have to] sleep in the streets or open fields because they're suddenly homeless."

To donate, go to born2fly.org/Donate.html.
</text>