<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-04/26/c_134185432.htm
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Spotlight: Relief aid rushed to Nepal after devastating quake - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
Members of China International Search and Rescue Team arrive at Tribhuwan International Airport in Kathmandu April 26, 2015, after a strong earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)

BEIJING, April 26 (Xinhua) -- The world is focusing on Nepal after a deadly earthquake jolted large parts of the mountain country on Saturday.

The international community have extended condolences to Nepal over the disaster, while swiftly sending rescue teams and other relief aid.

Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday sent a message of condolence to Nepalese President Ram Baran Yadav over the disastrous earthquake in the country.

The Chinese president expressed his confidence in the Nepalese government to combat the disaster and China's willingness to provide all necessary assistance.

Also, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Saturday sent a message of condolence to Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala.

Members of China International Search and Rescue Team arrive at Tribhuwan International Airport in Kathmandu April 26, 2015, after a strong earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. (Xinhua/Zhou Shengping)

A 62-strong China International Search & Rescue Team left for Nepal early Sunday.

With six sniffer dogs and relevant rescue and medical equipment, the team is expected to arrive in Kathmandu midday Sunday on a chartered plane, according to the China Earthquake Administration.

India sent two relief planes of air force to disaster-struck zones hours after the quake took place.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala, and assured him of all help.

Two military aircraft, a C-130 Hercules and a C17 Globemaster, took off from the Hindon air base in Delhi to Kathmandu with relief workers, medicines and blankets, said Press Trust of India.

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Saturday sent his deepest condolences to the government of Nepal and to everyone affected after the quake hit the Kathmandu Valley.

Ban said that the United Nations is supporting the government of Nepal in coordinating international search and rescue operations and is preparing to mount a major relief effort.

Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif said his government has instructed its missions in Nepal and India to approach their respective host governments to ascertain the damage and the requirement of relief assistance.

The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) of Pakistan is ready for relief assistance, Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said.

British Prime Minister David Cameron said Britain would do all it could to help in the aftermath of the earthquake.

Britain has deployed a team of humanitarian experts to Nepal to provide "urgent humanitarian support" for people affected by the earthquake, Britain's International Development Secretary Justine Greening announced.

The eight-strong team of disaster relief experts will travel to Nepal overnight and begin work on Sunday "assessing the scale of the damage and helping the Nepalese authorities direct the humanitarian response," Greening said.

The United States is dispatching a disaster response team to Nepal along with initial one million U.S. dollars in aid, said the White House in a statement Saturday.

The U.S. "stands ready to assist the government and people of Nepal and the region further," said National Security Council Spokesperson Bernadette Meehan in the statement.

France is ready to provide rescue assistance, said French president Francois Hollande Saturday.

In a press release of his presidential office the Elysee, Hollande expressed France's solidarity with the people and the government of Nepal.

Israel said it will send a rescue team to Nepal, which is expected to leave Saturday night.

The Venezuelan government on Saturday expressed its "deep sorrow" to the victims and offered its expertise in rescue operations to the Asian nation.
</text>