<url>
http://www.mailtimes.com.au/story/3065411/wimmera-people-rally-for-nepal-earthquake-victims/?cs=225
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Wimmera people rally for Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
WIMMERA people have rallied to raise money for people affected by a Nepal earthquake that has killed more than 7500 people.

Artist and Draw for Nepal organiser Anthony Pelchen and Nati Cafe co-owner Karen Tempest hang colourful drawings that will be sold to raise money for the victims of the Nepal earthquake. Picture: SAMANTHA CAMARRI

WIMMERA people have rallied to raise money for people affected by a Nepal earthquake that has killed more than 7500 people.



The United Nations estimates about 2.8 million people have been displaced by the natural disaster on April 25.

Quantong-based artist Anthony Pelchen is one of the people behind Draw for Nepal, which raises money from drawings being sold at the Natimuk Cafe.

‘‘Karin Matsuda and I walked to Natimuk from Quantong with a bag of oil pastels and paper on Saturday morning to kick it off,’’ he said.

Pelchen said Natimuk Cafe owners Tracey Skinner and Karen Tempest were keen to be involved.

‘‘The first drawings were made minutes later by a family en route to Melbourne,’’ he said.

‘‘The idea is simply that as many of us as possible draw with the intense colour of oil pastels on A5 paper and we put the works up in the Nati Cafe.

‘‘They are then sold for $20 each and hopefully anyone who buys one will also make one.’’

The drawings will be on sale at the cafe until Saturday next week. There will be a final sell-off event at 5pm.

Pelchen said the drawings could also be viewed and purchased online at www.facebook.com/DrawForNepal.

‘‘If you think you can’t draw, see it as simply putting colour on paper... patterns, anything – it’s easy,’’ he said.

‘‘The people of Nepal need all the colour they can get and money for basics.’’

Tomorrow night there will be a Nepal earthquake fundraiser at the Natimuk Soldiers Memorial Hall from 6pm.

Organiser Steve Findlay, who has been to Nepal more than 20 times, said his connection to the country sparked his desire to raise money for the earthquake appeal.

‘‘I decided that I would like to do something to help Nepal, having close connections myself,’’ he said.

‘‘I know how hard it is for the average Nepali citizen to live there with monsoons, landslides and all sorts of problems, and this is one more major catastrophe.’’

Mr Findlay said a group of Nepalese would cook dinner. The cost is $10 a person.

Guest speakers will include Brigette Muir, the first Australian woman to scale Mt Everest, Mt Everest summiter Steve Bell and Mr Findlay. Entry is $20.

‘‘Nepali people are farming people and so are people of the Wimmera,’’ he said.

‘‘Although the farming methods are extremely different, there are connections.

Wimmera people deal with fires and drought and Nepali people deal with earthquakes and landslides.’’

Mr Findlay said all money raised would go to earthquake victims.

‘‘We are trying to raise a lot of money to send to Nepal, so please come along, enjoy the evening and donate generously.’’
</text>