<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-earthquake-search-survivors-continues-5588092
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Why was the country hit by huge tremor that has left more than 2,000 dead
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Rescuers are still desperately hunting for survivors from the earthquake, which has left more than 2,000 people dead in Nepal.

Up to 70 Britons are still unaccounted for following the terrifying 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Positioned on colliding tectonic plates, Nepal lives under the constant threat of earthquakes.

Geologists say Saturday’s devastation followed the same pattern as two massive tremors that struck more than 700 years ago and echoes the last big earthquake, which killed more than 17,000 in 1934.

The cause is the India tectonic plate, which experts say is moving north at the rate of 5cm a year into central Asia.

The shifting of the Indian and Eurasian plates deep underground gave birth to the Himalayan mountain range.

Densely populated but with cheaply constructed buildings and a shoddy infrastructure, Nepal is used to but poorly prepared to handle such quakes.

The more affluent neighbourhoods of the capital Kathmandu come complete with their own earthquake stores, full of supplies in readiness for the next tremor.

But the historic temples reduced to rubble and the rural parts of the country stood no chance.

Researchers uncovered the historical pattern in Nepal just last month and predicted a major event in the exact spot that burst at the weekend.

Paul Tapponnier, from the Earth Observatory of Singapore, told the BBC: “We could see that both Kathmandu and Pokhara would now be particularly exposed to earthquakes rupturing the main fault, where it likely last did in 1344, between the two cities.”

After an earthquake, strain is passed down the fault line.

(Image: Getty)

The 1934 disaster is thought to have pushed pressure westwards before it was released on Saturday, 81 years later.

Laurent Bollinger, from the CEA research agency in France, addressed the Nepal Geological Society on the issue two weeks ago.

He now predicts there could be yet more to come.

Mr Bollinger said: “Early calculations suggest that Saturday’s magnitude-7.8 earthquake is probably not big enough to rupture all the way to the surface, so there is still likely to be more strain stored, and we should probably expect another big earthquake to the west and south of this one in the coming decades.”
</text>