<url>
http://www.cctv-america.com/2015/05/07/chinese-state-council-briefs-media-on-tibet-rescues
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Chinese State Council briefs media on Tibet rescues
</headline>

<text>
Click to print (Opens in new window)

Click to share on WeChat (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Weibo (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)

Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

President Xi is urging continued earthquake relief for the Tibet Region. China has also been a leader in providing aid to neighboring Nepal since the quake hit two weeks ago. CCTV’s He Wei-wei filed this report from Beijing.

During a press conference held jointly by Chinese authorities including the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Civil Affairs and Commerce, officials first introduced the rescue efforts by the central government in the Tibet Autonomous region, which was seriously impacted by the earthquake.

Chinese State Council briefs media on Tibet rescue efforts Chinese State Council briefs media on Tibet rescue efforts President Xi is urging continued earthquake relief for the Tibet Region. China has also been a leader in providing "aid" to neighboring Nepal since the quake hit two weeks ago. CCTV's He Wei-wei filed this report from Beijing.

China sets up field hospital for earthquake victims

Hospitals in Kathmandu have been overwhelmed by the number injured by last month’s earthquake. To help alleviate the overflow, a Chinese military field hospital has been set up. They bring with them advanced medical equipment, search dogs and electrical generators. CCTV’s Tony Cheng filed this report.



China sets up field hospital for earthquake victims China sets up field hospital for earthquake victims Hospitals in Kathmandu have been overwhelmed by the number injured by last month's earthquake. To help alleviate the overflow, a Chinese military field hospital has been set up. They bring with them advanced medical equipment, search dogs and electrical generators. CCTV's Tony Cheng filed this report.

Jeff Tschirley on Nepal Earthquake relief

For more on the Nepal Quake, CCTV spoke to Jeff Tschirley. He specializes in food security emergencies and is in charge of humanitarian policy and mobilizing resources for the UN’s Food and Agriculture emergency division.

Jeff Tschirley on Nepal Earthquake relief Jeff Tschirley on Nepal Earthquake relief For more on the Nepal Quake, CCTV spoke to Jeff Tschirley. He specializes in food security emergencies and is in charge of humanitarian policy and mobilizing resources for the UN's Food and Agriculture emergency division.
</text>