<url>
http://www.uniondemocrat.com/News/Local-News/-Sonora-travelers-survive-Nepal-quake
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Sonora travelers survive Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
, Copyright 2015. (Sonora residents (from left) Peggy Dylan, Steve Brougher and Donna Bach were all in Nepal during the devastating earthquake that struck on April 25. Jesse Jones / Union Democrat) 4705435

, Copyright 2015. (Sonora residents (from left) Peggy Dylan, Steve Brougher and Donna Bach were all in Nepal during the devastating earthquake that struck on April 25. Jesse Jones / Union Democrat) - union democrat

A- A+

A trio of Sonora residents were walking out of a temple at a 500-year-old Tibetan Buddhist monastery on a secluded plateau in the Nepalese Himalayas when the shaking began shortly before noon on April 25.

"Here we are standing in the doorway of this ancient temple with everyone milling around in the courtyard, and then this rumbling starts," said Steve Brougher. "Then it became so violent, it was a whole notch above anything we've ever experienced."

Brougher and his wife, Peggy Dylan, along with the couple's longtime friend, Donna Bach, had flown in a chartered helicopter from the capital city of Kathmandu to the remote Serang Gompa monastery, near the border with Tibet, just one day prior to a 7.8-magnitude earthquake that shook Nepal and killed more than 7,500 people.

Their trip to Nepal began April 15 was part of a "spiritual journey" for Dylan's company, Sundoor, which teaches firewalking and spiritual workshops. The company has hosted similar trips to other places in the past, such as Peru last year.

They were joined on the recent trip to Nepal by nine others, including one person from Texas and eight from Great Britain.

Brougher recalls he and his wife being the last ones from their group to exit the temple at Serang Gompa, about 12,000 feet above sea level, when the earthquake hit. He walked out to see avalanches and large boulders coming down the gigantic, 22,000-foot peaks surrounding them.

"You could hear off in the distance ice and rocks cracking off the peaks," he said. "It became kind of frightening because you thought, 'What's going to come down on top of us?' "

"The peaks look like they're right on top of you," Dylan added. "So there was that moment of discomfort."

Bach said the shaking lasted for a little over minute, but "seemed endless."

"The rocks coming down sounded like cannonballs," she said.

Bach, a world traveler who has visited 45 countries throughout her life, said she's experienced a number of earthquakes in California and while living in Guatemala during the 1970s, which helped her to remain calm during the initial massive earthquake and subsequently large aftershocks in the days that followed.

However, many of the British visitors and the 100 monks and nuns who live at the monastery had never experienced an earthquake in their lives. The last major temblor to hit Nepal was in 1934.

Bach traveled to Nepal to learn from the teachings of Tibetan Buddhism, but she found herself assuming the role of spiritual guide for many of the others at the monastery.

"When the big one happened, I was standing there breathing slowly and some of the women came over and clung to me," she said. "They had a hard time sleeping during the aftershocks, so they stayed in my room because I was the calm one."

The United Nations estimates that about 600,000 homes were damaged or destroyed by the earthquake. More than 400 people are still missing.

No one at the ancient monastery was hurt, and the buildings sustained only minor damage. Boulders and debris from the avalanches on the surrounding peaks fell into deep canyons and gorges encircling the roughly five-acre plateau.

"Here's this unbelievable destruction about 35 minutes away by helicopter, yet this setting was so peaceful," Dylan said. "Even amidst all this distress, the main sense was one of well being and that we were going to make it through."

The group had planned to stay at the monastery through April 30 to experience part of a 10-day annual ceremony intended to "eliminate all barriers to spiritual enlightenment," according to Dylan.

Nuptul Rinpoche, the 29-year-old abbot of Serang Gompa, helped to organize the group's trip after meeting Dylan in 2009.

In the days after the quake, the Nepalese government appropriated all of the private helicopters in the country for rescue operations. It would take at least nine days of walking to reach Kathmandu by foot.

A satellite phone at the monastery allowed Dylan, Brougher, Bach and the rest of their group to get in touch with a local organizer in Kathmandu, who within hours of the initial earthquake was able get word to family members around the world that they were all unharmed and safe.

Donna Bach's husband, Gary Groesbeck, said he was asleep when the earthquake happened - the time difference in Nepal is 13 hours - and learned that his wife was safe shortly after hearing about the disaster.

"I knew about it almost immediately," he said. "The only other concern was how quickly they could get out, but everything worked out since they were planning to stay for a week."

The group ran out of the food they had brought by Thursday, which made them a priority for the U.S. government to evacuate.

Brougher spoke via the satellite phone with Greg Floyd, an official at the U.S. embassy, who assured them that a helicopter would be coming to get them by Friday.

A helicopter with U.S. Special Forces and the State Department personnel landed on the plateau about 5 p.m. Friday and took all four Americans and Rinpoche back to Kathmandu. The British members of their group were flown out the following day.

On the flight, they could see "tents all over the city" and in vacant lots where many buildings had been leveled.

"You could see entire villages that were wiped out," Brougher recalled.

The once bustling streets of Kathmandu were nearly deserted when they traveled by bus from the U.S. embassy back to their hotel, which re-opened the day before they were evacuated from the monastery.

Bach flew back to California on Saturday, while Dylan and Brougher arrived home Tuesday.

The trio now hopes to raise money for relief efforts in Nepal.

Rinpoche, who studies in Boston and New York in a program set up by the Dalai Lama, is planning a trip to Tuolumne County later this month to host a ceremony on June 6 that will also serve as a fundraiser.

"I feel strong emotions both ways," Brougher said of the trip. "The situation we were in was totally safe, and it was such a blessing, but then I think of all the people whose lives were shattered and it really saddens my heart."

Dylan said the image from the trip that still stands out most to her is that of a nun in the temple who remained inside throughout the duration of the earthquake.

Part of the Tibetan Buddhist ceremony that took place at the time of the earthquake requires nuns, for 10 straight days in 9-hour shifts, to remain inside the monastery in prayer.

"Everyone's running and screaming, but she made a commitment to sit there," Dylan said. "She sat there with a smile on her face even though she didn't know what an earthquake was, but that was her commitment.

"I thought about that so much. How can we, in this changing world, connect to whatever the heart is in our lives despite all the shaking and rattling going on around us? That's what stuck with me the most - the image of the woman sitting there."

Contact Alex MacLean at amaclean@uniondemocrat.com or 588-4530.

11938066
</text>