<url>
http://www.phillyvoice.com/ways-help-nepals-earthquake-victims/
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Ways to help Nepal's earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
The following are some of the organizations providing relief in Nepal to thousands of victims from Saturday's 7.9 magnitude earthquake:





About 525 staff members are distributing food, shelter and clean water in Nepal, said Wendy Christian, head of media at Save the Children.

The group, which has provided aid work in Nepal since 1976, is handing out baby kits that include diapers, food and clean water; hygiene kits and household kits because "moms need a place to cook and prepare food for the family," Christian said.

Save the Children set a goal of raising $50 million for earthquake relief in Nepal. It received about $600,000 in donations over the weekend, Christian said.



Care.org

The organization, in Nepal since 1978, has 150 team members already on the ground and will be adding more as soon as possible, said Brian Feagans, director of communications at Care.org



Care.org's focus area is providing sanitation and humanitarian supplies to 100,000 people in need, with a focus on the areas outside of Katmandu toward Pokara. The goal is to raise $40 million.

Oxfam



Oxfam, which has been operating in Nepal since the 1980s, established four open-air sites in the Katmandu Valley to provide sanitation and fresh water for earthquake victims.

Plans are in the works to set up at least 16 sites in the coming days, said Alissa Rooney, director of media and public relations.



IFRC

The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies launched a 33.4 million Swiss franc emergency appeal to provide vital services in Nepal, including food, shelter, water and sanitation assistance for 75,000 vulnerable people, according to the organization's website.



Doctors Without Borders

Doctors Without Borders eight teams on the way to affected areas in Nepal. All donations will go to the group's general fund - not earmarked specifically for Nepal - until more staff is on the ground and the needs are assessed. When the group assesses the aid situation, it will establish a fundraising goal.

Team Rubicon

This group came into prominence after Hurricane Sandy. It has an operation underway in Kathmandu with one team and a second team on the way. The current fundraising goal is $125,000, of which more than $88,000 had been donated by noon EDT.



AmeriCares

An emergency response team stationed in Mumbai is already providing medicine and supplies in affected areas in Nepal. A second team is en route from the United States. Donations go to all the areas where AmeriCares has operations, including aiding victims of Cyclone Pam in Vanuatu.



Kids of Kathmandu

Kids of Kathmandu uses photography and the arts to raise awareness about the needs of orphans in Nepal's capital city. The organization says funds raised will go towards supporting children affected by the earthquake.



United Airlines

United Airlines is working with the American Red Cross, AmeriCares, Airlink and Operation USA to provide aid in Nepal. The airline said on Monday it is providing up to $50,000 in matching donations to these partner organizations from United customers and employees. The airline will also provide a one-time mileage bonus to MileagePlus members who donate funds. United will contribute up to 5 million miles for this initiative.



Click here for tips to avoid charity scam.
</text>