<url>
http://www.thewhig.com/2015/05/07/soldier-puts-dart-on-map
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Soldier puts DART on map
</headline>

<text>
When Master Cpl. Denis Carriere heard he was headed to Nepal to provide relief after an earthquake hit the country, killing more than 7,000 people, he knew he had to work quickly.

For the first time in his four-year career as a geomatics technician with Canada's Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART), he was headed overseas. He said he was excited to be part of a specialized team that provides relief in the world's most deadly natural disasters, but also knew he only had two days to make a lot of maps.

"It's an art. You leave really fast and you have to figure out everything on a day's notice," Carriere said via phone from Nepal. "It's about giving people a situational awareness. If you're in the field in Nepal, there's no Wi-Fi, there's no Internet, so that mapping support when you're in a remote area is really essential for your awareness."

Ottawa born and raised, Carriere has called Kingston home for the past four years. He's one of two military men from the city who were deployed as a part of DART to Nepal, where the capital city of Kathmandu and surrounding areas were devastated by the 8.1 magnitude quake.

Canada's DART mission began April 29, four days after the earthquake. By the time the team arrived, Kathmandu was slowly starting to rebuild, but the bulk of the outlying towns and villages had not been visited.

"There's a lot of devastation in the remote areas because NGOs can't actually go to those areas, and it's really hard for vehicles and transports to get to those places. Whereas we have military vehicles, so we can get there a little easier and help out those remote areas," Carriere explained. "Even though we're post-earthquake and we've been here for a lot of days, there's still a lot of work to be done in these outside areas."

DART was created by the Canadian government in 1996 in the aftermath of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, when Canada's aid arrived after the peak of a cholera epidemic. Since then, the Kingston-based relief team has assisted in seven disaster zones, most recently in the Philippines in 2013.

When he joined the military in 2005, Carriere wanted to experience Afghanistan through his own eyes. He started as a combat engineer diffusing bombs and was deployed as a soldier to a war zone.

After he returned to Canada, he enrolled in university and started studying something a bit different -- geomatics -- and, shortly after graduation, joined up with DART.

"It's definitely more rewarding doing a DART mission because you know you're there for helping and relief and not a war zone. It's quite the change and it's really good to have that change," he said.

He'd been mapping for six days straight when he was contacted to speak about his work. The mapping products he created are key for troops navigating the rural areas of Nepal, where it's easy to get lost and there is no Google Maps to help out.

In Canada, this type of work is handled by Natural Resources Canada, something that doesn't really exist in Nepal, Carriere said. As his mapping duties for Canadian troops start to wind down, he's turning his attention to the British and American armies' geomatic needs.

On the ground, he said the atmosphere is hopeful as the rebuilding effort starts. Locals are actively clearing rubble and bricks, he said, and are friendly and appreciative.

"We all kind of stick out like a sore thumb because we're wearing combat uniforms. But, even though people are looking at us, they're all very friendly," he said.

Maj. Steeve Gregoire agreed and said Canadian troops are always very welcome among the Nepalese people. He's the second Kingstonian deployed with DART, though coming from a military family, he's been in the city a bit longer, and is no stranger to travel.

This is also Gregoire's first overseas deployment with DART, since he only joined the team last November. Though after 24 years in the military, much of it as a military police official, he's no stranger to disaster and war zones.

As the team's operations manager, he overseas almost all aspects of the mission on the ground. One of the most rewarding experiences so far, he said, was when the team set up a medical aid station in one of the outlying regions.

"Within 24 hours of our aid station being built, patients have been coming through. We haven't had time to push out and do assessments, people have been coming to us to receive the aid," Gregoire said. "Everywhere we go, we're very welcome. People are just looking towards us to provide them with the relief that they need."

Seeing the services that troops set up being used almost immediately provides the "utmost satisfaction," he said, and said the move to DART is "one of the most rewarding things" he's done so far.

"One thing you don't want to see as a Canadian soldier is to be deployed, provide relief, and then not be appreciated by the country. It's the total opposite here," he said. "We're well appreciated, people understand our capabilities, people understand our limitations and accept what we're able to offer."
</text>