<url>
http://inserbia.info/today/2015/05/cuba-to-send-medical-team-to-earthquake-stricken-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Cuba to Send Medical Team to Earthquake-Stricken Nepal ⋆ InSerbia Today
</headline>

<text>
HAVANA, Cuba – Continuing the tradition of helping nations around the world in need of medical workers, Cuba is set to send a team comprised of several surgeons, doctors, specialists and nurses to Nepal in response to the April 25th earthquake that left 7,600 dead and nearly 18,000 injured with both figures set to continue rising.

A worldwide leader in medicine with tens of thousands of its medical workers already donating their time and effort abroad for several decades now, Cuba has announced through its Health Ministry that it is sending the group to Kathmandu to aid the devastated area whose medical infrastructure has been decimated by the natural disaster.

The Specialized International Contingent Brigade “Henry Reeve,” whose specialty is natural disasters and major epidemics, will set up camp in central Kathmandu where they will establish a field hospital.

The Brigade, which consists of 48 individuals highly experienced in working in natural disaster areas, will have 22 specialists among them that will establish a surgical unit, sterilization center, an intensive care unit, x-ray and ultrasound diagnosis sector and an area for rehabilitation and medical consultation.

It is unknown how long the unit will remain in Nepal, but if the situation continues deteriorating as it has been due to aftershocks and inclement weather further complicating rescue and aid efforts, their time there will be extended and they will likely be joined by another contingent of Cuban medical aid workers.

The response by the island’s Health Ministry came after the World Health Organization (WHO) urged further medical aid to Nepal. While many international organizations and governments have donated food, supplies and money, only a small number of governments and groups, including the Red Cross and Doctors Without Borders, have committed themselves to the vital task of providing much-needed medical aid.

The WHO explained that “many hospitals in 4 of the worst-affected districts are completely destroyed or too badly damaged to function while five other major hospitals, providing important health care in the districts, were found to be functioning but urgently in need of further medical supplies” and urged donators to assist in this regard.

Aissa García, a reporter for the Venezuelan TeleSur in Nepal, said that Dr. Khem Karki, the Nepalese coordinator heading his nation’s Health Ministry Effort for Foreign Medical Teams, announced the creation of the field hospital where the Cuban contingent will be based.

Dr. Karki outlined that while several hospitals are still functioning, many of them have only some working departments due to damage while medical supplies are sorely lacking, creating a major problem as many patients have to be redirected to another hospital because the first cannot help them with their particular problem. This has been most prevalent for pregnant women as the damaged maternity hospital in Kathmandu only has 150 available beds.

The Cuban teams will be facing a radically different landscape than they are used to but the task of helping people will be the same.

Most recently, throughout late 2014, Cuba sent medical personnel, equipment and medicine to several West African countries, including Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, that were affected by the Ebola virus. Well over 600 Cuban medical workers remained for months in the affected region after an outbreak of the virus claimed the lives of several thousand people. The Cuban aid workers in West Africa formed only a small part of the larger contingent of the island’s medics on the continent, which number more than 4,000 strong in 32 African countries.

Since Fidel Castro’s 1959 Revolution, groups of professionals from the nation’s healthcare system, seen as one of the shining achievements of the political system instituted by Castro, have volunteered to travel abroad in order to help people through altruism while simultaneously shining a positive light on the reputation of Cuba worldwide.

Cuba’s first mission of this kind began some 14 months into the Revolution when the nation sent hundreds of doctors to Chile to help in the aftermath of the devastating 1960 Valdivia earthquake. This event marked the maiden of a series that would continue for the next five decades that saw Cuba send some 80,000 health care workers to over 100 countries, and this series is ongoing today with the most recent mission headed to Nepal.

Initially, Cuba sent aid teams to fellow Latin American nations but soon, the medical workers volunteered to aid in nations in Africa, Asia, Europe and anywhere in the world where their help was wanted and needed in cases of health epidemics, humanitarian crises, natural disasters, violent conflicts and wars. Furthermore, Cuba has welcomed thousands of people worldwide to the medical centers on its own territory, ranging from victims of land mines to nuclear radiation exposure to people born with debilitating conditions, all at no cost.

The Latin American School of Medicine (ELAM) in Havana is another resource for the global community as some 20,000 students from abroad are able to earn their medical degrees, again at no cost. The ELAM accepts even students from the United States, mostly from low-income and underdeveloped areas, through a religious organization based in New York City so as to circumvent the restrictions placed on travel by the US embargo on Cuba, in place since 1962.

In response to the catastrophic Hurricane Katrina that struck the Gulf of Mexico, but most devastatingly the US States of Louisiana and Mississippi, Cuba offered over 1,500 medical volunteers along with nearly 40 tons of medical supplies and equipment, but their generosity was denied by the then-ruling government of George W. Bush.

In 2010, the Cuban medical response and rescue team was the first international group on the scene in the aftermath of the catastrophic earthquake that struck the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince. The Cuban team established five field hospitals throughout the region affected by the earthquake and sent several other medical brigades to be dispatched throughout the country. Furthermore, several of the medical units comprised of integrated foreigners were led by Cuban doctors and three of the functioning hospitals in Port-au-Prince were under Cuban leadership.

The Cuban presence is likely most felt in Brazil, where, according to President Dilma Rousseff, over 50 million people have benefitted in some way from the nation’s Mais Médicos (More Doctors) program, the goal of which is to provide and improve medical access in poor and rural areas of Brazil through domestic and foreign doctors.

Mais Médicos is present in nearly 4,000 municipalities across the vast South American country and some 14,500 Cuban doctors are practicing their professions in health centers on the poor peripheries of megacities like São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, in smaller towns and cities in the interior as well as the isolated districts populated by indigenous Brazilians.

Research from the Brazilian government showed sharp increases in voluntary medical visits in the areas where the Cuban doctors were present, and simultaneously, sharp decreases in the same regions were documented in the rates of infant, child and maternal mortality and deaths from hypertension and diabetes just in the early stages of the program. Meanwhile, emergency centers and hospitals were able to provide service to the most severe cases due to a steep fall in hospital visits for preventable medical problems.
</text>