<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/India/Israel-lauds-Indias-efforts-in-quake-hit-Nepal/articleshow/47209840.cms
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Israel lauds India's efforts in quake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI: Israel had a hospital up and running in Kathmandu within 96 hours of the earthquake in Nepal, said Daniel Carmon, Israeli ambassador to India, while praising India's efforts in the Himalayan nation, including the help in evacuating Israeli tourists. after the devastating earthquake.Talking to journalists, Carmon said India had fast-tracked customs clearance for Israeli relief supplies travelling to Nepal as well as allowing use of Indian airspace. "We had about 700 known Israeli tourists, who were in Nepal at the time the quake struck. There were about 100 trekkers who were stranded and later rescued. Another 230 were rescued through Israeli airplanes and a batch of 260 was brought back in the plane that brought in the medical hospital team," Carmon said."The Indian government offered us all cooperation, in terms of its consular assistance in getting Israeli citizens visas for evacuating through New Delhi from Kathmandu. And, in terms of clearances to fly through Indian airspace," he said. The ambassador said the Israeli hospital had delivered eight babies till date there. "We hope some of these new babies will bear names that will associate them with our country, Israel," he said."We had 11 tonnes of relief material like medical, food and water supplies and we all managed it from Delhi. But, it was in sending and timely delivering the supplies that the diplomatic channels helped and India's external affairs ministry played an important role in expediting it," said a senior official at the Israeli embassy. Israel, he said, would rebuild an entire village and help rehabilitate its inhabitants.The ambassador reiterated Israel's commitment to fully rebuilding a village in Nepal, ravaged by the earthquake.Questioned about reports of surrogate mothers left behind, he denied it, saying, "No surrogate mother has been left behind where the obligation has been left unfinished ... The numbers are much smaller than described and the Israeli government is taking serious note of that," he said. The ambassador said no known Israeli national is stranded as of now. "We only lost one Israeli youth who got buried in the debris. His body has already been flown back to Israel."The Israel government has also sent a team of experts and clowns to its hospital in Kathmandu to help children and adults cope with post quake trauma. "We have sent a team of clowns, because the damage is not just physical and biological but also psychological. And, these clowns would help in dealing with the immense tragedy, not just for children but also adults. Besides, we also have psychiatrists there," Ohad Horsandi, Israel embassy spokesperson said.
</text>