<url>
http://www.rediff.com/news/report/how-israeli-embassy-had-a-plane-full-of-supplies-to-nepal-ready-in-12-hrs/20150508.htm
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
How Israeli embassy had a plane full of supplies to Nepal ready in 12 hrs
</headline>

<text>
Share

Text size: A A A

May 08, 2015 21:42 IST

Israel, which was among the first responders in providing assistance to Nepal after the earthquake, had its entire embassy staff in Delhi work with military precision to rush relief. Shubha Singh reports

What would you do if you had to pack a C130J Hercules aircraft with about 11 tonnes of food and medical supplies at short notice?

Anyone shopping for a large event would understand the logistical problems it would entail. But the Israeli embassy in Delhi mounted a special operation to fill the military aircraft with essential supplies required for the Israeli field hospital in Kathmandu and their rescue and relief teams. The military aircraft had flown in relief material to Kathmandu and was then directed to Delhi to make another sortie to bring in the additional supplies.

The day-long operation to assemble the required supplies worked with near military precision. Almost the entire embassy staff including diplomats got down to work to source the supplies, label the packages in Hebrew, organise the paperwork required to export the cargo and have it on the aircraft by the end of the day.

The operation began in the early hours of the morning when the plan was worked out. By 10 am when the markets opened in Delhi, people were dispatched to buy different items.

Niev Soroka of the administrative section was tasked to buy 300kg of dry fruit (meant as an energy supplement). The shops in Bhogal market did not have enough stocks but they rang up wholesellers in Chandi Chowk to get them when they learnt that the consignment was meant for Nepal earthquake victims.

Amul dairy provided packaged milk, the bakers in Khan Market sourced 400 loaves of bread, INA market organised 400 kg of pasta, 7,000 litres of water, and 300 kg of frozen chicken in refrigerated packs, among other supplies. The chicken has to reach Kathmandu in time for the Sabbath meal on Friday for the Israelis at the field hospital.

Delivery of all items had to be ensured and by late afternoon the embassy premises looked like a warehouse. From drivers, junior staff and other personnel, all of them painstakingly pasted Hebrew labels on the packages.

“We are diplomats, this kind of work is not part of our diplomatic training,” exclaimed an Israeli diplomat. But by late evening, chief administrative officer of the Israeli embassy, Haim Levy had ensured that the supplies had been moved to the airport to be packed in the Hercules aircraft. At 11 pm the aircraft was enroute to Kathmandu.

Israel had been among the first responders in providing assistance to Nepal after the earthquake. The Israel government has a standard operating procedure for its response to emergency situations arising from natural disasters anywhere in the world. It also has experienced search and rescue teams that use highly sophisticated equipment to detect signs of life under the rubble of fallen buildings. Israeli teams were involved in rescue operations after the 2001 earthquake in Kutch.

Nepal is a favourite destination for Israeli tourists and the Israeli government was quick to act. There were no clear estimates on the number of Israeli tourists in Nepal at the time of the earthquake, but there were almost 100 Israeli tourists stranded in the mountains. The Israeli government evacuated more than 750 Israelis, flew in a fully equipped field hospital with 260 personnel, and had it running within 96 hours. Some Israeli nationals chose to stay on in Nepal or move to India.

The Indian government provided all assistance in India and Nepal to evacuate Israeli citizens, said Israeli Ambassador Daniel Carmon talking to journalists in Delhi. The Israeli operation was second only to the Indian in the speed of its response, though it did not compare in the scale of operation, he said.

“The Indian response and operation in Nepal was very impressive,” added the Israeli Ambassador, “it has been admired around the world.”

According to Ambassador Carmon, Israel hopes to adopt a village in Nepal for reconstruction and rehabilitation.

Image: The helmet of an Israeli soldier and member of an aid delegation is seen as he waits for a flight to Nepal at Ben Gurion international airport near Tel Aviv, Israel. Photograph: Baz Ratner/Reuters
</text>