<url>
http://www.masslive.com/news/index.ssf/2015/05/from_refugee_camp_to_top_of_cl.html
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
From refugee camp to top of class: Brother and sister at Springfield high school win Gates Millennium scholarship
</headline>

<text>
SPRINGFIELD — Central High School seniors, brother and sister Lila and Chandra Chamlagai, arrived in Springfield from a refugee camp in eastern Nepal in 2011 – armed only with the basic English skills they learned in a camp school with 50 to 60 students in a class.

Today, they are among 1,000 students nationwide named as 2015 recipients of the prestigious Gates Millennium Scholarship, guaranteeing them a full-ride scholarship to the school of their choice.

The honor students, who live with their parents in Springfield's Forest Park neighborhood, have decided to stick together as they move on from high school, choosing to attend small, private Elmira College in upstate New York in the fall.

Lila plans to major in biology and upon graduation, apply to medical school while his sister plans to major in biochemistry on the way to becoming a physician assistant.

As improbable as their success may seem, teachers who had both students in classes at Central are not surprised about the most recent honor bestowed on the Chamlagais, calling them the "hardest working students" they've ever taught.

Their parents fled to Nepal to escape ethnic persecution under the brutal monarch who held power in the 1990s. Lila and Chandra were born in the camp and lived in crowded living quarters with minimal needs met by international refugee organizations including the United Nations. Above all else, their parents parents always valued education for their children.

"They believed that education was the key to bridging the gap between poverty and possibilities for success," Lila said of his parents. "They were always on our back," making sure we studied, Chandra said.

Still – despite the hard conditions in the camp – the decision to immigrate to the United States was not an easy one for their parents, who worried about their ability to adjust, the siblings said.

"My father was scared to come," Lila said, adding that his parents delayed the application process for two years before finally relenting at their children's urging.

The siblings volunteered to do all the paper work required by the International Organization for Migration. "We did all the processing," Chandra said.

The family settled in Springfield with the help of the Jewish Family Services, which set them up with housing and furnishing. Their father works for a food service company based at Western New England University and their mother is a homemaker.

As eager as the students were to begin their high school career in America, the first few days were overwhelming, they said. "For the first time, I was crying," Chandra said. "I didn't know anyone and I got lost on the way to classes."

The custom of students switching rooms for classes was unlike the system in the refugee camp where students stay put and teachers do the moving, Lila said.

Within a week, Lila said they began to feel at home at Central where they had high praise for the teachers and resources available to them. "Resources are numerous at Central," Lila said. "If you work hard, teachers are there to help you."

As they continued to perfect their English, teachers encouraged them to read as many books and newspapers as possible. They got extra credit for writing a summaries of the books they read.

Neither hesitated when asked about their favorite books. Lila said "Tuesdays with Morrie," by Mitch Albom was his favorite and Chandra said hers was "The Fault in Our Stars" by John Green.

Jean Marvel, an English teacher who works with English-language learners, said she realized the potential of the students the minute she met them. "I quickly moved them to more advanced classes," Marvel said, noting that they were already intermediate English language speakers when they came to Central.

"From the minute they came here they were highly motivated to succeed and learn everything," she said.

Marvel said they were adept at mastering the dual task of learning the language and the subject matter at the same time. The language of Nepal has none of the Latin roots found in biology texts, she said.

They are now enrolled in English honors courses as well as in Advanced Placement in calculus and science.

Science teacher Frank Spina, math teacher Mike Powell and English teacher Susan Bishop had similar praise for the students.

Bishop said the students are generous with other students when working in small groups. "It's part of who they are," she said. "They want to help people."

Besides their academic success, they have been active in leadership roles at school and in the community at large, volunteering at Baystate Medical Center during the summer months.

Lila, a ping pong champion, is president of the ping pong club and the American Red Cross club.

The suffering and lack of adequate medical care in refugee camps in nations like Nepal have inspired both of them to look at careers in medicine and public health, they said.

The Chamlagais lived in the eastern part of Nepal, far from the central part of the country that has been devastated by an earthquake that claimed thousands of lives and destroyed historic treasures.

Funded by $1.6 billion from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Millennium Scholars program selects 1,000 top low-income students each year and agrees to pay all their unmet financial need to attend any college they choose. The program also provides winners with leadership development opportunities, mentoring, and academic and social support.




</text>