<url>
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/09/world/asia/nepalese-village-devastated-by-quake-is-left-to-cope-as-international-attention-shifts.html
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese Village, Devastated by Quake, Is Left to Cope as International Attention Shifts
</headline>

<text>
Some aid workers said they were worried that donors’ attention had already strayed from Nepal. An initial request to donor nations by the United Nations for $423 million for the first three months of aid has yielded only $22.4 million so far, according to a spokeswoman for the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.

“We have three months when everything can happen,” Maurizio Busatti, chief of mission for the International Organization for Migration in Nepal, said in an interview. “That will make the difference between the true recovery — a family that will start planting, and find shelter better than a tarpaulin — and the risk that this doesn’t happen, which means more people depending on handouts.”

Few villages sustained worse damage than Langtang, whose guesthouses have long been a popular stop with international backpackers. Jofre Juangran, a helicopter pilot who has been ferrying aid workers to remote posts, looked down on Friday at the bare ground of the valley.

“Only one house,” he said. “There was a village here.”

Mr. Pokharel, the police official, said the authorities were struggling to determine how many people were in the village at the time of the avalanche. As many as 260 tourists are thought to be missing. Austin Lord, 30, a U.S. Fulbright scholar in Nepal, said a festive crowd had gathered in the village the night before the earthquake for a traditionalfuneral ceremony.

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.

“They danced all night,” he said. “It was beautiful and people were singing and it was hundreds of people.”

Trekkers who left Langtang that morning described being hit by such a powerful blast that they clung to each other, or to trees, to avoid being buried. Mr. Lord, who was around three miles from Langtang, said the sky darkened and air pressure seemed to be forced downward into the valley, creating a “super-dense torrential downpour in addition to debris and dust and boulders coming down from both sides.” When that subsided, he joined people from local villages who ran back to get a better view. They glimpsed the “giant white swath of the avalanche,” he said, and people began to wail.

“Then we had confirmation of what we already assumed,” said Mr. Lord, who has founded an organization to collect aid for residents of the district. “Everybody was just saying, ‘Langtang, sabai gayo,’ which means, Langtang is all gone.”

Aftershocks shook the valley in the following days, and when the first helicopters arrived to evacuate people, they were met by a desperate crowd. A group of unharmed foreign tourists lept onto the first helicopter that arrived, two days after the earthquake, only to be stopped by Nepalis who insisted the flight be used to evacuate the wounded, including a child with two broken legs, Brigida Martinez, who was there at the time, said in an interview from San Diego.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kat Heldman, who was traveling with Ms. Martinez, said she cannot shake the memory of the people she met in Langtang, which she left about four hours before the earthquake buried it.

“Right before we hiked out, I saw these three little boys, and I asked, ‘Can I take your picture?’ And the little boy said, ‘No photo, no photo,’ and I said, ‘No problem,’ ” she said. “And then a minute later, he said, ‘Yes, photo,’ and I took some pictures.

“Now I’m pretty sure they’re gone,” she said. “It’s very surreal.”
</text>