<url>
http://www.punemirror.in/pune/civic/States-Everest-girl-to-help-rural-Nepals-economy/articleshow/47207479.cms
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
State’s Everest girl to help rural Nepal’s economy
</headline>

<text>
Of the strong-willed Samaritans doing good work in quake-struck Nepal, one is India's first female Mount Everest summiteer — 26-year-old Krushnaa Patil from Maharashtra — who is currently camping in the Himalayan country to extend aid to scores of victims of the recent natural disaster.However, the trekker has now decided to go beyond the call of immediate duty to provide more long-term relief. Instead of merely helping local authorities with rescue operations, Patil is planning to create jobs for rural Nepalese women by setting up a small manufacturing unit of sanitary napkins, especially in areas that frequently experience a lack of these items.For this, she has tied up with a well-known Coimbatore-based social entrepreneur, Arunachalam Muruganantham, who with his notfor- profit firm Jayaashree Industries has provided dignity to women from lower income groups for many years, by making it possible for them to buy sanitary napkins and also providing them with income at the same time.Speaking to Mirror from neighbouring Nepal, Patil said, "It is well known that Arunachalam is the man who created the world's lowest cost machine to produce sanitary napkins. Over the years, he has installed over 1,300 units in 27 states across rural India, which are operated by groups of women."She added, "Currently, help is pouring into Nepal, with items like sanitary napkins also coming from various sources. However, the question is, is this really sustainable? After some days, when help will stop coming, how will the rural people sustain their livelihood?"To make women from rural Nepalese areas self-reliant and to solve the issue of lack of availability of sanitary napkins (much like rural India), Patil has decided to start a manufacturing unit of the same with Arunachalam's help. "I am tying up with a local foundation, which is helping me find a place near Bhaktapur. Through this unit, at least 1,500 napkins will be manufactured and at least 30 women will get employment. The total cost of one unit will go up to Rs 3 lakh. Low-cost machines will be brought from Arunachalam's firm, and training given by his people to local hands, along with raw material," she said.Her aim is to set up 20 such units across various parts of Nepal, where such endeavours will soon be essential to resurrecting the rural economy, which has been shaken after the April 25 earthquake. "I appeal to those who would like to donate funds to relief in Nepal — instead of sending money, they should help set up units like these, as more sustainable aid," said Patil.She further said that she would be handling the unit for the next six months; thereafter, it will be handed over to the women working with her.Arunachalam told Mirror, "Our firm will be providing expertise, raw materials and machines. After the set-up is done, training will be given to the women, so that they can start manufacturing the napkins themselves. These will then become available at affordable prices for the Nepalese rural population."
</text>