<url>
http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/local/2015/05/07/delawareans-help-rebuild-nepal/70975524/
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
Delawareans help rebuild Nepal
</headline>

<text>
University of Delaware alum Allen Gula (left) with his friend, UD senior Juliette Maas, and another backpacker friend. (Photo: Courtesy of Juliette Maas)

Like so many others before him, UD alum Allen Gula set out on a 30-day hike to Everest Base Camp in Nepal to quiet his mind long enough to figure out his next step.

After spending five years working in rural community development in Ghana, Panama, Honduras and Nicaragua, Gula was searching for an unequivocal sign, a cause deserving of his laser focus.

He found it on April 25, 10,000 feet above sea level, when a moment of stillness warped into a deep rumble.

"I was moved by an external force, something outside of what feels normal," the St. Mark's graduate said of the magnitude-7.8 earthquake that has killed more than 7,700 people and injured at least 16,000.

Dodging fallen rocks, Gula quickly reunited with his two backpacking buddies. Without local guides, the trio trekked on in complete obliviousness for several days. Soon, frequent aftershocks forced them to pick up the pace.

On May 1, they arrived in the city of Dharan, 300 miles east of Kathmandu. There, Gula responded to more than 300 messages from concerned friends and family, including the parents of other trekkers who couldn't be found.

Loved ones were relieved Gula was safe. But his former colleagues knew the 27-year-old wasn't rushing to evacuate.

"What are you doing next?" they prodded.

On Tuesday, Gula and his friend, UD senior Juliette Maas, decided to cancel their return flights and remain in Kathmandu to raise money for long-term sustainable building efforts.

"I have worked my whole life to be in this place and do this type of work," said Gula, who, regretfully, will miss spending Mother's Day with his mom in Seattle.

"It's hard to see things you've seen and then turn around and go home."

First State's first response

Other Delawareans have answered the call.

On Saturday, a group of about a dozen physicians, nurses and logistics experts with the Delaware Medical Relief Team will depart for Kathmandu to begin a sustained, months-long effort to care for quake victims. The News Journal will accompany the team, which will spend about a week delivering aid before the next wave of volunteers arrives.

The team will fly commercial at a cost of more than $1,100 per person. A request to the Dover Air Force Base for a military flight is still pending. An advance team of three Delaware Medical Relief doctors arrived earlier this week to coordinate logistics, treat several hundred patients and deliver hundreds of dollars in humanitarian aid.

The next group plans to separate into two smaller teams. One will be stationed in and around Kathmandu to provide wound care, deliver food and medical supplies and treat patients with chronic conditions.

The other plans to establish a makeshift clinic in Syabrubesi in the Langtang Valley. Situated on a popular trekking route about an eight hours' drive (on a good day) from Kathmandu, the area was virtually wiped out by a massive landslide following the earthquake.

The Delaware team expects to be one of the first to deliver a coordinated medical response in the area, according to Deep Kahlon, a Newark orthopedic surgeon who has helped direct the effort. Getting to Syabrubesi will involve a combination of driving and trekking. The road to the valley, heavily damaged by landslides, reopened earlier this week.

A group of surgeons initially expected to join the group, but were told Wednesday by their hospital partner, Helping Hands Community Hospital in Kathmandu, that acute cases were under control, Kahlon said.

The decision meant the team had to forfeit more than $150,000 in surgical equipment donated by Johnson & Johnson. Kahlon said the equipment would be passed on to other surgeons working on the ground.

So far, the group, which also responded to the 2010 Haiti earthquake, has gathered more than 90 volunteers and received commitments for nearly $40,000 in aid. Donors include the state Department of Health and Social Services, Kahlon's First State Orthopaedics practice and Christiana Care Health System.

Many of the volunteers are affiliated with Christiana Care, which has agreed to give them two weeks of paid administrative leave.

Christiana emergency physician Gordon Reed, joined by physician's assistant Matt Cruikshank, was on a two-day hike away from Everest Base Camp when he felt intense shaking on the ground. The two were in town for a wilderness medical conference.

Both reached 14,000 feet above sea level before local guides instructed them to turn around. On the treacherous descent, they encountered mounds of rubble, collapsing homes and landslides.

"I think terrifying is an understatement," Reed said.

The 53-year-old spent six months preparing for the experience, but he doesn't expect to return to Everest.

"The notion of me going back to the same spot and leaving my family behind," he said, trailing off.

But Reed expects the people of Nepal to rebound.

"They're a hearty group of people and they're not afraid to work," he said.

Simarly, Maas, who took a leave of absence from UD last year to join Gula on a seven-month journey through southeast Asia, said she was amazed by the resourcefulness and peacefulness of the Nepalese following the worst natural disaster to hit the Himalayan nation in 80 years.

One day after the devastating temblor, Maas flew from an ashram in the Himalayas to Kathmandu to try to locate Gula and her other friends. When her ATM card failed to work at the airport, a local man behind her handed her 1,000 Nepalese rupees (about $10).

"I have seen nothing but selflessness, kindness and acts of generosity on all sides," she said.

But the 24-year-old is also a realist. She knows the emergency relief workers will soon pack up and return to their normal lives.

"Bags of rice and plastic tarps aren't going to solve the problem in the long-run," she said.

To that end, the young Delawareans have set up a campaign on crowdfunding platform Indiegogo to provide sustainable housing solutions to a resource-poor country that has lost hundreds of thousands of homes.

The pair sleep at a friend's intact home in Kathmandu that has turned into an operations hub for relief workers.

When Maas first arrived, she camped at the U.S. Embassy with about 100 other dazed tourists and their families. She learned to anticipate aftershocks based on the birds' flight pattern. When a flock abruptly flew away from the city, she knew to check her footing.

Each day, Gula hops in a Jeep with 10 volunteers and drives to the surrounding villages to distribute rice and lentils, clean water and tarps.

He has witnessed residents scraping tin roofs off their ravaged homes to provide shelter. Some have moved into the chicken coops, setting the animals free.

"How can I help you?" Gula recently asked a 9-year-old boy in a village near Barpak.

"There's been an earthquake," he responded, flatly. Both shared a laugh.

"We need help rebuilding," the boy continued. "We're going to survive."

Village life goes on, with evening teas supplied by the last few taps of running water.

"When you live in the mountains and you've survived this long, you know how to go without comfort," Gula said.

The Nepalese are "beautifully resilient."

To donate to the Delaware Medical Relief Team, visit http://www.delawaremedicalreliefteam.org.

To donate to long-term sustainable housing in Nepal, visit https://life.indiegogo.com/fundraisers/nepal-earthquake-sustainable-housing-solutions

Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1Pt2KNg
</text>