<url>
http://www.news-gazette.com/news/local/2015-05-08/we-just-hunkered-down.html
</url>

<date>
20150508
</date>

<headline>
'We just hunkered down'
</headline>

<text>
Photo by: Robin Scholz/The News-Gazette Michael Comet with a healing bowl he brought back from Nepal, at his home in Champaign. Image

CHAMPAIGN — Michael Comet of Champaign was a short trek away from the Mount Everest base camp when a massive earthquake rocked Nepal on April 25.

As part of a tour group, he had hiked to a small village, Gorak Shep, just a few kilometers south of the camp.

"We stopped for lunch and were about to hike two hours to the base camp, and that's when the earthquake hit — or at least when we felt it," said Comet, 49, a principal in the Pepsi-Cola Champaign-Urbana Bottling Co.

"The ground was shaking two feet to the left and right. At first, we thought it was a landslide or an avalanche of some sort," he said. "We heard people freaking out, saying 'Get out of the building,' and we got out. Fifteen to 20 seconds later, the earth stopped shaking, and you could hear the rumble of avalanches 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) north of us."

The avalanches swallowed up part of the base camp, destroying the southern end of it, Comet said.

What Comet and his trek mates experienced in Gorak Shep was a plume of snow and ice particles that preceded the avalanche and pushed down into the valley.

"We just hunkered down in the courtyard and didn't go anywhere. We had no idea what the severity of the plume would be," he said.

Some people closer to base camp were pushed off their feet by the plume, suffering bruises and in one case a broken nose.

But by the time the plume reached Gorak Shep, "nothing knocked us over. It was a snowy white-out situation, where you couldn't see the building next to you." Comet said.

That lasted for perhaps two or three minutes and coated the village with 2 to 3 inches of fresh snow.

An hour later came the first aftershock. The trekking party had to remain in Gorak Shep that night, during which there were two more aftershocks.

When one of those aftershocks hit about 2 a.m., Comet said, "I don't think I touched the floor." He leaped out of his sleeping bag "and made it to the security of an open door, standing in the frame" of it.

On April 25, Comet didn't know that the quake — which measured at magnitude 7.8 and killed an estimated 7,600 people — had its epicenter west of Kathmandu, in Nepal's Gorkha district. He figured the quake came from one of the local mountains. Gorak Shep is about 50 miles due east of Kathmandu, the nation's capital.

What worried Comet most was his inability to communicate with his wife, Panagiota, and sons, Alexander and George, back in Champaign. He was without solid cell or Wi-Fi service for three days.

The tour company, however, was able to place a satellite phone call to its home office in Canada, which in turn sent mass emails to relatives letting them know of the group's safety.

Comet's wife got word of the quake before seeing the email and had "a few hours that were pretty scary," Comet said.

The trekking group had to take a different way back from Gorak Shep.

"As we were trekking south out of the valley, at every town we stayed at, the villages got worse and worse as far as the damage was concerned," Comet said.

"The airport was a shambles, and flights were limited, and many of the tea huts (along the way) were not standing any more," he said.

After the trekkers reached the village of Namche, an international evacuation group met them with a helicopter and flew them to Kathmandu on April 28. They then flew to New Delhi, India, on April 29, and Comet returned to Chicago's O'Hare Airport on May 1.

The Everest Base Camp Trek, offered by Tusker Trail Adventure, was to be an 18-day trip, from April 15 to May 2. Comet said the group included 14 trekkers, plus a medic and a guide from Tusker, and an additional team of 15 Nepalis who acted as porters, yak handlers and sherpas. The hike would have been about 155 miles round-trip, and Comet figures his party covered about 120 miles.

Comet's brother, John, accompanied him on the journey, but had to bow out early after experiencing altitude sickness.

In retrospect, Comet said Kathmandu and the base camp were two places you didn't want to be when the quake struck.

"Our camp was not in either place. We didn't sustain any injuries," he said. But they did encounter injured trekkers.

"Most of the seriously injured were being helicoptered out the next morning," he said. "About 40 injured folks were helicoptered off base camp, and so far the death toll has reached 19 at base camp."

Comet said his trekking party could well have been at base camp when the quake struck, if not for delays.

"Luckily for us, we had a series of delays that morning. We should have been at base camp at 1 p.m. But it snowed overnight, so an hour-and-a-half trek (into Gorak Shep) turned into three hours. Our meal time was delayed as well," he said.

Comet said he did not have an extensive history of mountain hiking — "previously, just the peaks in Colorado, simple stuff. This was more stepping out into the extreme."

And his next adventure?

"Let's just say we're going to vacation in East Central Illinois," Comet said. "My wife says I can go back, but I cannot go back without her."
</text>