<url>
http://www.terradaily.com/reports/Nepal_tragedy_takes_toll_even_on_cremation_overseers_999.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Nepal tragedy takes toll even on cremation overseers
</headline>

<text>










Nepal tragedy takes toll even on cremation overseers

By Ammu KANNAMPILLY

Kathmandu (AFP) May 6, 2015





Campaigners warn of rise in trafficking after Nepal quake

Kathmandu (AFP) May 6, 2015 - Human traffickers could try to target vulnerable women and children displaced by a devastating earthquake in Nepal, campaigners warned on Wednesday. Kathmandu (AFP) May 6, 2015 - Human traffickers could try to target vulnerable women and children displaced by a devastating earthquake in Nepal, campaigners warned on Wednesday. The deadly earthquake that struck on April 25 killed thousands of people and made many more homeless. One non-government organisation working to prevent child trafficking said it had seen an increase in suspicious cases at the porous border with India which has in the past been used to traffic women and children from Nepal into slavery and prostitution. "Girls are at high risk of trafficking and sexual abuse, they have to be protected," Anuradha Koirala, the founder of Maiti Nepal, an anti-trafficking organisation, told AFP. Koirala said her organisation had increased its monitoring operations on the border with India. A cycle of unemployment, poverty, gender discrimination and impact of 10-year Maoist insurgency has made Nepalese women and children in the country easy targets for traffickers. A 2013 report by the country's human rights commission recorded 29,000 incidences of trafficking or attempted trafficking in the country. "We have special teams inspecting camps and shelters to ensure that women and children live in a safe environment," said deputy spokesman for Nepal Police, Sarbendra Khanal. "We understand that there is a threat, and we are working to put in preventive measures." Relief agencies working in quake-hit areas are seeking to raise awareness of the dangers to vulnerable people. But Kamal Thapa Chettri from the trafficking office at Nepal's Human Rights Commission said agents could also be posing as aid workers. "This (quake) gives them an opportunity to see who is desperate and find potential targets. The quake-hit areas definitely face an increased risk," he said. Health workers race to prevent Nepal measles outbreak

Kotdanda, Nepal (AFP) May 6, 2015 - Health workers are rushing to vaccinate more than half a million children in Nepal as fears grow that last month's massive earthquake has made youngsters more susceptible to disease. UNICEF has warned of a race against time to prevent a deadly outbreak of measles in the impoverished Himalayan nation following the April 25 quake that killed 7,652 people in Nepal. The UN children's fund, the World Health Organization and the Nepalese government are targeting the urgent inoculation of 500,000 children in the areas worst-hit by the quake. "Before the earthquake, one in ten children in Nepal was not vaccinated against measles, so we're going to vaccinate half a million children in the coming weeks," Kent Page, UNICEF Nepal's emergency spokesperson, told AFP. At a mobile vaccination unit Wednesday in mountainous Kotdanda, near the capital Kathmandu, a steady stream of women queued up, each carrying a baby or young child. The children received a medical checkup by female Nepali health workers before receiving their vaccinations. "Many of the children are living outdoors, they're not getting the food they need, their sort of physical well-being isn't so good, so they're more susceptible to often fatal diseases like measles," Page said. "We're doing this measles vaccination campaign to prevent any outbreak or spread of measles," he added. Health workers have started by immunising children under five in makeshift camps that have sprung up in three densely-populated districts in Kathmandu Valley -- Bhaktapur, Kathmandu and Lalitpur. The vaccination drive will eventually include 12 districts most affected by the disaster. As veteran cremation worker Khadga Adhikari placed a handful of uncooked rice and a coin on the chest of yet another young victim of Nepal's earthquake, his own heart was filled with sadness. "I don't remember much about most people I cremate," said Adhikari, who has spent 30 years preparing funeral pyres. "But when you are handling the body of a child, it hurts deeply. It's not their time to die." Ever since the capital Kathmandu was devastated by a 7.8-magnitude quake on April 25, Adhikari and his colleagues have been struggling to keep pace with the flow of bodies found buried under the rubble and mud. Such has been the workload that there were even fears at one stage of a shortage of wood to cremate the victims who, in accordance with Hindu tradition, are swaddled in white cloth and then placed on the pyre. In a rare moment of rest, the 55-year-old Adhikari told AFP that despite a lifetime dealing with the dead, even he was distraught at having to witness so much grief. On the night of the quake, Adhikari had to cremate three children including a six-year-old boy, whose family members wept throughout the ceremony at Kathmandu's famed Pashupatinath temple. Funeral pyres are traditionally lit by the oldest son of the deceased so the idea of parents overseeing the cremation of their children is particularly painful. Adhikari shuddered as he recalled wrapping the broken body of the young boy in the white shroud before ritually placing the rice and coin on top. "You expect old people to die. When a small child dies before his or her time because of a disaster, I feel a lot of pain," he said. By the time the sun rose on the morning after the quake, he had burned the bodies of two more children and several adults, sweeping up ashes and sending hissing clouds of smoke into the air as he struggled to wash the funeral platforms between cremations. It was, he admits, "the most difficult night" of his life. The pyres that line the banks of Kathmandu's Bagmati river turned the Pashupatinath temple's open-air cremation complex into a virtual sauna, the heat and dehydration dizzying Adhikari as the bodies kept coming. "Everyone was in so much pain and I remember feeling so weak, like the energy was seeping out of me with each pyre," he recalled. "But people had bodies to burn. Where else could they go?" - Bodies on ice - Adhikari is one of 27 men who perform funeral rites at the sprawling temple complex, a World Heritage site which has seen hundreds of cremations since the quake. As the scale of the disaster became clear the government decided to provide free firewood for relatives of all victims, who would otherwise have to pay some 2,000 rupees ($20) towards each funeral. Scores of unidentified victims were burnt in mass cremations at the temple and in villages across the mainly Hindu Himalayan nation, while morgues have struggled to store bodies pending police and family verification. At Kathmandu's Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital, attendants have resorted to piling ice on top of bodies or storing two corpses in a facility meant for one. "Our morgue's capacity to store 20 bodies is not enough even on regular days... when a disaster like this strikes, the pressure is overwhelming," said Pramod Shrestha, head of the hospital's department of forensic medicine. "We are using ice, sometimes doubling up bodies in refrigerators -- it's non-stop work, we still have 37 unclaimed cases," Shrestha told AFP. Amid the unfolding tragedy, Pashupatinath has seen a spurt in worshippers thanks to its apparent resistance to the quake which left most of the complex unharmed, said Govinda Tandon, member-secretary of the Pashupati Area Development Trust. "People believe that God was protecting the temple, he saved it... since then, more and more people have been coming here every day," Tandon told AFP. For Adhikari, who has burnt more bodies in the past ten days than in an entire month before the disaster, the memories of the youngest victims reflect "God's strange ways". "According to our Hindu traditions, this temple is a blessed place and whoever is cremated here goes to heaven... I guess it is my good fortune to do this work, because I am sending souls to God." Thanks for being here;

We need your help. The SpaceDaily news network continues to grow but revenues have never been harder to maintain.



With the rise of Ad Blockers, and Facebook - our traditional revenue sources via quality network advertising continues to decline. And unlike so many other news sites, we don't have a paywall - with those annoying usernames and passwords.



Our news coverage takes time and effort to publish 365 days a year.



If you find our news sites informative and useful then please consider becoming a regular supporter or for now make a one off contribution.



SpaceDaily Contributor

$5 Billed Once





credit card or paypal

SpaceDaily Monthly Supporter

$5 Billed Monthly





paypal only



.

Related Links

Bringing Order To A World Of Disasters

A world of storm and tempest

When the Earth Quakes







Tweet



Comment on this article via your Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, Hotmail login.



Share this article via these popular social media networks

del.icio.us Digg Reddit Google





Memory Foam Mattress Review SPACE MEDIA NETWORK PROMOTIONS

Solar Energy Solutions

Tempur-Pedic Mattress Comparison ...

Newsletters :: SpaceDaily :: SpaceWar :: TerraDaily :: Energy Daily

XML Feeds :: Space News :: Earth News :: War News :: Solar Energy News


</text>