<url>
http://www.cbs46.com/story/29005795/decatur-man-talks-about-surviving-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Decatur man talks about surviving Nepal earthquake - CBS46 News
</headline>

<text>
It's a story of survival. A local Decatur man found himself on a Nepal mountain top during the country's series of earthquakes last month. Now he's home and sharing his story with CBS46.

Marty Emanuel claimed it took him several days to hike out of the earthquake torn countryside. He said the terrain was extremely rugged and dangerous.

“This was like bombs going off. These were huge explosions,” explained Emanuel of the sights and sounds of the Nepal quake.

The teacher, artist and grandfather was on a two month trip to the country to study the culture when he found himself taking actual pictures of the massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake as it happened.

“If you start at the top,” he pointed out on a photograph of the area of a landslide, “The entire mountain just fell down to the river."

He said the next thing he knew he, his guide and a few hundred others from nearby villages were walking to find safety.

“We passed a man who was just sitting there in the grass holding onto his prayer beads and spinning his prayer wheel,” said Emanuel.

And then, while deciding whether to camp for the night or to go, disaster struck again.

“At 8 p.m. another quake hit and the building raised off the ground and that ended our discussion of where we were going to stay,” claimed the teacher.

Everywhere the group walked for the next few days they encountered cracked and crumbling homes, massive landslides, even a bridge that was buried under tons of rock but it still had to be crossed.

“I remember the villagers staring at us and telling us they watched us with their hands over their eyes they were so worried,” said Emanuel.

At times they shared shelter and food with other evacuees and more often than not, the conditions were very primitive. Death was looming at every turn as they attempted to walk down the mountain roads that were now impassable due to large rock slides. But eventually they made it down the mountain.

Emanuel said he and his guide were finally able to walk to an area where they could get cell phone service and they called for a car. He was then able to get a chartered flight back to America. He said he had no idea his family was looking for him or thought he was missing. But he is glad to be home back safe and sound in the U.S.A.

Copyright 2015 WGCL-TV (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.
</text>