<url>
http://www.enca.com/world/gift-givers-final-outreach-treats-200-people
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Gift of the Givers' final outreach treats 200 people
</headline>

<text>
People wait in line to see doctors from the Gift of the Givers medical team in Lubhu, Kathmandu during a primary healthcare outreach programme. The team were in Nepal to provide disaster relief after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal. Photo: Bianca Bothma/ eNCA

KATHMANDU – Bimla Shrestha is nine months pregnant and she urgently needs to find a new place to live. Her baby is due to be born any day now and she is currently living in a tent shelter, after the 7.8 magnitude earthquake damaged her house.

“I’m worried about my baby. I need to find a new home soon,” she told eNCA.com.

Pictured above: Bimla Shrestha visited the Gift of the Givers primary healthcare outreach programme in Lubhu village on Wednesday 6 May 2015.

Shrestha is one of 200 patients treated on Wednesday during the Gift of the Givers final primary health outreach progamme in Lubhu village in Nepal.

The team left Nepal on Wednesday night. In total they have treated 600 patients and completed 100 surgical cases.

Dr Kasandri Govender, an obstetrician and gynaecologist is one of the many specialist doctors part of the medical team.

The doctor from Durban treated Shrestha and is extremely concerned for her well-being.

Pictured above: Dr Kasandri Govender, an obstetrician and gynaecologist treats a woman at the primary healthcare outreach programme in Lubhu, Kathmandu.

She says the patient will need to have another caesarean section because her first child was born that way but is worried because Shrestha has nowhere to recover from the operation.

Aside from a number of pregnant women, there were also several women with babies who came to see the doctors.

“At the moment these women and their babies are fighting a challenge against their circumstances at a time that’s supposed to be the happiest time of their lives,” said Govender.

“What do you do if your home is destroyed and you have no options? You pick up a piece of tarpaulin and sleep under it. I feel concerned and desperate on their behalf,”” she said.

Govender works in both the private and public health sector in Ballito and Stanger respectively. She said while it’s difficult to compare Nepal and South Africa because Nepal is a disaster zone, generally speaking pregnant women in South Africa appear to be better taken care of.

Pictured above: A woman gives her child water to drink while waiting in the sun to see one of the doctors in the Gift ot the Givers medical team at a primary healthcare outreach programme in Lubhu, Kathmandu, Nepal.

“Women here (in Nepal) have no choice. In South Africa even if you are destitute you can still get help from a social worker,” she said.

Aside from the primary healthcare outreach, the Gift of the Givers team also handed out food parcels at Lubhoo village. The parcels included rice, dhal (lentils), sugar, salt and cooking oil.

Dr Imtiaz Sooliman director of Gift of the Givers said this is an essential part of the mission.

“Food parcel distribution is always a side when you see the human emotion come through, even those distributing feel the impact,” he said.

“This is what people wait for, this is tangible,” he added.

Pictured above: Gift of the Givers director Dr Imtiaz Sooliman hands out food parcels at a primary healthcare outreach programme in Lubhu, Kathmandu.

At the same time as the food parcel distribution in Lubhu, another 600 food parcels were being distributed in other areas.

“Even when we’re gone, the food parcel distribution will continue, and we’ll supply them with more medical supplies to give to the hospitals,” said Sooliman.

Gift of the Givers has ordered 4,000 tents from India.

“These will go to the areas where most people are crying for shelter because in four weeks time the monsoon rains are coming,” said Sooliman.

The Nepal disaster relief mission cost close to R10-million and came to an end on Wednesday.

Markes Butler, head of Free State disaster management said the trip has been very rewarding for him.

“Serving the global community, that’s all we are here for.”

“The highlight is seeing how people’s faces brighten up when we deliver the aid and how we are just attending to their basic needs,” said Butler.

Like many other people on the mission, Butler plans to go home and share knowledge with the rest of his team.

Pictured above: Rescue workers, medical specialists, volunteers and media who participated in the Gift of the Givers primary health outreach programme in Lubhu, Kathmandu, Nepal on Wednesday 6 May 2015.

eNCA
</text>