<url>
http://www.coventrytelegraph.net/news/coventry-news/watch-coventry-firefighter-among-first-9200786
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Watch: Coventry firefighter among first volunteers to join Nepal earthquake rescue mission
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

A Coventry firefighter who travelled to Nepal as part of the mercy mission following last week’s earthquake has spoken of the “devastation” left in its wake.

Brett Davies was one of the very first volunteers from the UK to land in the capital Kathmandu after the quake ripped through the country, killing more than 7,500 people and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless.

He was part of the team from Serve On, a humanitarian response organisation, who joined the thousands of kind-hearted souls from across the globe who answered Nepal’s plea for aid.

Now back on home soil, Brett reflected on the mission to Nepal and said: “The majority of damage in Kathmandu was some of the older buildings and in the poor areas.

"A lot of the buildings there are still standing but as you go out towards the villages, a lot of the house are hand-built brick and they are totally devastated.

“Even some of the concrete buildings that are still standing are broken at the pillars and the bases aren’t very strong.

“We were the first British charity team in the country and when we first landed we were tasked with going to a couple of hospitals to check them out.

“There was some chaos with organisation, but people had been evacuated and field hospitals had been set up.

“After that we went north and that’s when we started to see the devastation in the villages and pockets of totally collapsed structures.

“People were sitting at the sides of the road with no shelter.”

The quake, which measured 7.8 on the Richter Scale, left hundreds of thousands living in makeshift camps and also sparked deadly avalanches on the world’s biggest mountain, Everest.

Brett was astonished by the resilience shown by the people of Nepal and also its armed forces to immediately start rebuilding their lives.

“Even while we were there people were starting to rebuild their homes,” he said. “They are very resilient and just got on with it.

“We had some troubles with road blocks but that’s to be expected and the Nepalese army were working so hard. We passed squadrons of the army up the mountains with shovels and picks who were out looking for people.”
</text>