<url>
http://us.india.com/lifestyle/update-on-nepal-earthquake-rebuilding-after-trauma-376475/
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Update on Nepal Earthquake: Rebuilding After Trauma
</headline>

<text>
On April 25, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal killing more than 7,000 people. The International Business Times reports that more than 14,500 people have been injured, with a total of at least 8 million people affected. Indian states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Sikkim, all which share a border with Nepal, have also reported infrastructure destruction. Assam, a northeastern state of India, has also faced some damage. In the neighboring Tibet, there were also casualties, building collapses, and road damage. In addition, several UNESCO World Heritage sites have been destroyed including Patan Durbar Square.

The destruction from the quake has also significantly affected poor, rural communities, leaving them without power, sanitation or shelter. The Nepali government has come under fire for permitting bureaucratic interference to hinder supplies and aid from quickly reaching the hardest hit areas. Newsweek reports that the Nepali government released a statement on May 3 denouncing these critics. However, daily reports are still coming in that relief aid and resources are amassing at the Kathmandu airport.

The 2015 quake has been the most powerful disaster that has hit Nepal since the 1934 8.0 magnitude Nepal-Bihar earthquake. Damage from the Nepal-Bihar earthquake occurred in central Nepal, including Kathmandu and the eastern part of the country. In the 2015 quake, 30 out of 75 Nepali districts have been affected.

Many are still thought to be trapped under rubble and reaching them has been difficult. The number of casualties is expected to rise. Aftershocks following the big quake are also creating issues for rescue and aid operations and causing a sense of anxiety.

Code for Nepal created an interactive map of injuries and deaths, and public houses damaged or destroyed based off of data from the Nepal Ministry of Home Affairs that is constantly being updated.

Aid and relief groups are working to prevent an outbreak of waterborne diseases. Médecins Sans Frontières has set up three blow-up tent hospitals in Gorkha, the rural epicenter of the quake. As of May 5, the World Health Organization estimates that more than 39,000 people have been treated in hospitals both within Kathmandu and outside the valley.

The aftermath of such a disaster is difficult in many ways. Reports have shown that human sex traffickers are targeting Nepali girls and young women, especially those who were left homeless by the quake. In addition, an estimated 50 percent of Nepali households have at least one member who is working abroad in places such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and Malaysia. Getting leave to return to their homeland has also proven difficult, as employers are reluctant to let these migrants go back to Nepal and potentially renege on their work contracts and visas.

The United States, Indian, Israeli, Pakistani, Japanese and other world governments, have sent both supplies and health care personnel to Nepal. The U.N.’s emergency fund has pledged $15 million. Aid has also come from corporations such as Facebook, Google, payment providers and communication companies. Facebook has a tool called the Safety Check that allows people to send messages to those in Nepal. Google has re-installed its Person Finder tool, which helps people post information about missing persons in a disaster zone. Verizon, T-Mobile, Sprint, Vodafone and others, have waived fees for calls in Nepal. Apple, PayPal and Square Cash, are also waiving fees and facilitating donations.

Sienna Craig, chair of anthropology at Dartmouth College, has worked in Nepal for over 20 years. Her op/ed in The Independent points to three tiers of action people can take to provide immediate relief and reconstruction aid. Organizations that have been vetted to be reputable by Craig include:

1. Educate the Children: Ithaca, NY-based NGO working in rural areas of Nepal.

2. One Heart World-Wide: maternal-child health NGO working in two of the hardest-hit rural districts outside of Kathmandu—Dhading and Sindhupalchok.

3. America Nepal Medical Foundation: organization working on the ground in Nepal since 1997. It is a collaboration between Nepali and U.S. doctors.

4. Mercy Corps: works through Nepal and has decades of experiences responding to disaster situations.

5. Waves for Water: focused on clean-water disaster relief.

6. Drokpa: NGO primarily working in Mustang and Dolpo. People from Mustang and Dolpo living in Kathmandu—especially children attending boarding schools and monasteries—have been directly impacted. Co-founders, Craig and Ken Bauer, are in close contact with people from both regions and will ensure that the tax-deductible donations go to families in need. Donations can be sent to: Drokpa, c/o Sienna Craig & Ken Bauer 95 Stowell Rd. Norwich, VT 05055.

Craig also suggests donating to the Red Cross and the charities listed here. And, before going to Nepal, consider ways to help from where you are and your qualifications for the trip.

As the summer monsoon season approaches, Nepal could face added complications from mudslides and landslides. The areas most at risk are those that border Nepal and Tibet, north of Kathmandu.
</text>