<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-05/07/c_134217632.htm
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Qomolangma climbing season likely to be called off for 2nd straight year - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
By Shristi Kafle

KATHMANDU, May 7 (Xinhua) -- The Mount Qomolangma expeditions for 2015 is likely to be canceled this year again following the deadly avalanches triggered by the 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal on April 25, likely triggering a huge loss in the country's tourism business.

The move may come as 19 people including climbers, guides and helpers were confirmed dead in this year's avalanches at the Qomolangma base camp with a huge number of other people sustaining injuries.

The official decision from the Department of Tourism is yet to come but the mountaineering officials said there is a minimal possibility in the resumption of expeditions as the climbing routes have been damaged.

The Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee (SPCC) is responsible for preparing the climbing route to the world's highest peak.

Tulsi Prasad Gautam, director general of the Department of Tourism, told Xinhua on Wednesday "We have verbally received the information that the SPCC cannot make ready the routes in a short span of time amid risks and difficulties, which mean climbing will not be possible this time."

However, the Department of Tourism is waiting for the official confirmation from the SPCC, which will be received within two days.

The chance of preparing the route is more and more unlikely as the time is short and monsoons are likely to start soon along with continuing aftershocks. The temperature is also likely to rise.

In a statement, the SPCC said on Tuesday after conducting a survey of the situation at the Qomolangma Base Camp and the Khumbu region,"we have come to a conclusion not to take risks by continuing work on the mountain".

According to them, it would take a minimum of two weeks to create the route up to Camp II, adding that there is no adequate equipment and supplies to begin the task.

Mountaineering officials said that the base camp has already been empty as all the teams have returned to Kathmandu and their homelands.

Ginesh Sindurakaar, CEO of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, told Xinhua "It's been confirmed that the route cannot be ready. Most of the climbers have already returned to their nations and the injured have been sent to hospitals by air ambulances."

This year, the tourism department has issued climbing permits to 370 individuals for this spring climbing season.

Temba Tsheri Sherpa of Dreamers Destination Expedition Pvt. Ltd. told Xinhua "It's a huge loss to mountain tourism business owing to a halt in climbing for two consecutive years. There is no calculation for the losses at all."

From his company Dreamers Destination Expedition, 25 foreigners had received the climbing permit, among which 3 foreigners including one Chinese, one American and one Japanese lost their lives in an avalanche.

The Sherpa added "From my team alone, more than 60 local staff have been injured and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Kathmandu."

The period between April and May is considered as the peak tourist season for climbing and trekking in the region.

The Qomolangma expedition was halted even in 2014 following the deaths of 16 Sherpa guides in a snow disaster, which had grabbed the international attention to the risks and challenges of climbing the peak.

Regarding the refunding of royalty fees to the climbers, the Department of Tourism is yet to take any action as the priority is on rescue and relief program for the earthquake victims.
</text>