<url>
http://metronews.ca/news/toronto/1362365/toronto-tibetan-restaurant-asks-customers-to-eat-pray-donate-for-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Toronto Tibetan restaurant asks customers to eat, pray, donate for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Eat, pray, donate.

Three simple things that we can all do. Three powerful things that show Nepal that we care about its devastating earthquake.

Garab B. Lama encouraged his customers to Eat Pray Donate for Nepal at Tibet Kitchen in Parkdale on Sunday.

He started at 10 a.m. by serving his Tibetan breakfast of deep-fried bread (yoshang), eggs, chickpeas, potatoes, butter tea and sweet chai.

At noon he switched to a traditional Nepali thali, a platter with steamed rice, poori (another fried bread), lentil curry, spicy potatoes called aloo dum, lentil dal, pickles and a sweet.

From 4 to 10, Lama served his regular menu, a mix of momos and other traditional Tibetan dishes, plus Hakka (Chinese-Indian) favourites like chili chicken.

His beer, sake and coffee suppliers (Steam Whistle, Kozaemon and Propeller) offered up liquid donations.

Lama pledged half his sales to Nepal. He raised $2,400 and sold out by 7:30 p.m.

“I believe in helping other people,” he says.

It’s as simple as that.

Lama is a Tibetan who was born and raised in Kathmandu, Nepal. His wife Kunsang Dekyi is a Tibetan born in India.

“When we lived in Nepal, we knew the earthquake was coming but we didn’t know when,” remembers Lama. They were lucky. None of their family or friends were killed in this disaster.

Their 19-year-old son Tenzing Chokden was born in Nepal. Their 9-year-old son Tenzin Yeshi Serdok was born here. (In Tibetan culture, the Office of His Holiness the Dalai Lama names children and they don’t take their father’s surname.)

The family bought Tibet Kitchen in 2012, back when it only had “10 or 11 reviews on Yelp.” Now it has 42, a fact that makes Lama exceptionally proud.

“I’m pretty good, right?” he says with his trademark wide grin.

As he puts it, “in my restaurant, we make everything from zero.” Translation: “From scratch.”

The family takes me into the kitchen and shows me how to make aloo dum, the spicy potatoes that anchor the Nepali thali.

The cook whips up this dish in minutes in a wok, throwing in fenugreek seeds, a few spices, a homemade tomato sauce and cilantro and coating boiled potato chunks in these delicious flavours.

“It’s good for back home to support them in whatever way we can,” says Dekyi. “We are just trying in a small way to support them.”

Chokden, a kinesiology student, works as a server at Tibet Kitchen.

No one in the family has heard of the Eat, Pray, Love memoir by Elizabeth Gilbert, or the film starring Julia Roberts, that seemingly inspired the title for the Eat Pray Donate for Nepal campaign.

“I don’t know any of that. My nephew is the one who does all of those things,” admits Lama.

That nephew, Sandup Nima, also had no idea the name referenced a 2006 book or 2010 movie. “It was just a spontaneous idea.”

Well, this spontaneous idea raised much-needed cash for the Nepalese Doctors Association UK and the Canadian Red Cross.

When you tally up the money raised from meals plus cash donations and a bake sale, the Eat Pray Donate for Nepal event raised $4,066.25.
</text>