<url>
http://www.dallasnews.com/news/community-news/richardson-lake-highlands/headlines/20150507-richardson-natives-race-clock-to-help-displaced-nepalis-as-monsoon-season-looms.ece
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Richardson natives race clock to help displaced Nepalis as monsoon season looms
</headline>

<text>
Jami Saunders jumped out of bed, shaken by an earthquake on the other side of the world.

A text message had notified her of the seismic convulsion that leveled much of Nepal in late April, killing thousands. Saunders worried about the safety of 41 orphaned Nepali children with whom she had formed relationships in the five years since she co-founded Kids of Kathmandu, a charity that helps fund their living and education expenses.

“[Through social media,] we were able to quickly confirm that all of our kids were OK over there,” said Saunders, a 1992 graduate of Richardson High School. “And then it was like, OK, now what?”

Kids of Kathmandu was founded in 2010 to support an orphanage in Bhaktapur, just outside Nepal’s capital city. In less than two weeks since the earthquake struck, the charity has raised more than $100,000 for Nepalis in need of emergency relief — particularly those without shelter in hard-to-reach, rural areas.

In 2004, nearly two-thirds of residential buildings in Nepal were made from mud-bonded materials or wood, according to a 2008 report by the U.S. Geological Survey. Less than 20 percent of residential structures consisted of cement-bonded materials or concrete.

As a result, a great number of homes were damaged or destroyed in the earthquake, said Kathmandu resident Bhushan Dahal, who works for Saunders’ organization.

Dahal said most of those displaced by the earthquake are sleeping “under the sky” — some under makeshift tarp shelters, some in the open — with less than a month before monsoon season begins. In addition to providing food and medical supplies, Kids of Kathmandu’s relief efforts have focused on providing tents to as many people as possible before the storms hit.

“This is the thing that really needs to happen very soon. Otherwise, it will be the link to create a huge disaster,” Dahal said. “That will be a starting point for different communicable diseases.”

The idea for the charity came to Saunders and her then-husband, Andrew Raible, on their 2010 honeymoon in Nepal. Part of their trip involved volunteer work at the same orphanage now supported by Kids of Kathmandu, Saunders said.

“I remember the car pulling away and the kids waving,” she said of her last day at the orphanage. “They’re all wearing our sweaters and the clothes that we gave them. I remember crying ... thinking, ‘This can’t be the last time we see these kids.’”

Saunders, a photographer, captured images of the orphaned children on that trip, then used the photos to help raise money for the orphanage when she and Raible returned to their home in New York. In the years since, Saunders said, Kids of Kathmandu has begun to partner with other organizations in Nepal and works primarily through trusted natives like Dahal.

Dahal heard about the opportunity to work for the charity through a friend and said he was struck by the generosity of Saunders and Raibles, who “were having a good life” in the U.S.

“Their willingness, their sacrifice to help the needy people of Nepal ... that really made me feel like they were the best people to work with,” Dahal said.

Saunders wasn’t the only Richardson native to contribute to the aid efforts in recent weeks. Lake Highlands High School senior Alex Irwin visited Kathmandu Valley in Nepal last summer for a mission trip. Irwin, also a photographer, brought home images that she entered in Richardson’s Cottonwood Art Festival through the Emerging Artists program.

After learning of the earthquake, Irwin decided to sell copies of her images at the festival for $4 each, with all the proceeds going toward Red Cross relief efforts in Nepal. She said she also received donations. The total raised so far, she said, is close to $1,000.

“I know that so much has been destroyed, and I know that some people have lost so much,” Irwin said. “So I just wanted to do my part and contribute as much as I could.”

Dahal said many people he’s talked to are concerned about government corruption playing a role in the distribution of relief funds. For this reason, he recommended foreign donors contribute to relief organizations that work directly with the people of Nepal.

“A lot of international aid [is] coming to the country,” Dahal said. “If all this money had been properly used, it would almost be enough to make [Nepal] more beautiful than it was before. The bureaucracy, the government officer has a very, very important role to play.”

Saunders said one of the hardest things about the experience is remembering the positivity embraced by Nepalis on occasions she’s visited. She said that optimism is still there even after the earthquake, according to reports from her partners in Nepal.

“That’s why we wanted to keep this country in our lives,” Saunders said. “There’s something about it that just pulls you in. ... Despite how little they have, they just [seem to] have so much.”

Richardson/Lake Highlands/Far North Dallas editor Daniel Houston can be reached at 214-977-8024.

HOW TO DONATE

Through Kids of Kathmandu: kidsofkathmandu.org; provides tents, food and basic medical supplies in hard-to-reach rural areas

Through American Red Cross: redcross.org/donate; select “Nepal Earthquake Relief” from the dropdown menu
</text>