<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/07/business/most-shopping-malls-in-valley-reopen-partially/404939.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Most shopping malls in valley reopen partially
</headline>

<text>
May 7, 2015-

Most of the shopping malls in Kathmandu have reopened partially while a few remain fully closed. Only the shops located on the ground floor are in operation at the malls that have reopened for business. The shops on the upper floors have not reopened for fear of further quakes as escape would be difficult.

Most of the shopping centres have suffered varying degrees of damage due to the tremors. Traders who have reopened their shops said that they had to return as they needed to earn money for their living expenses despite the continuing fear of tremors.

“Although the situation has gradually started returning to normal, we are still afraid. But we started operating the shop from today since life has to go on,” said Hridaya Babu Shrestha, proprietor of Ware 16 at People’s Plaza where a glass wall on the top floor was broken. “I have sold 15 pieces of clothing so far.” He added that customers had gradually started coming back to buy clothes. The mall’s ground and first floor have been reopened.

Another trader Bijay Kumar, proprietor of Samyam Readymade at the same mall, said that he reopened his shop so that positive vibes about the market could be spread among customers. “As many people died, many were injured and some people are still not getting relief in many areas, I am not in a mood to open the shop. But there is no other option. At the end of the day, we need to earn some money for our upkeep,” he said.

The United World Trade Centre (UWTC) has reopened its coffee shop and some stores on the ground floor. Anuj Bansal, proprietor of Shoe Bank at the UWTC which reopened on Tuesday, said footfall had been increasing day by day. “Many shops in this mall are still closed, but I am taking advantage of having a shop on the ground floor,” he said. The UWTC does not seem to have suffered any significant damage from the quake.

Similarly, some shops have reopened at the City Centre which has sustained several cracks and other damage. Although the cinema theatre, food court and game zone have not resumed services, the department store and some apparel stores were open on Wednesday.

Sujina Maharjan, the cashier at 109 Degree Fahrenheit at the centre, said they hadn’t seen any customers. “No one has come to buy anything since we reopened the shop yesterday. It seems people are still scared to enter the building as it suffered some damage,” she added. According to her, the shop used to have a daily turnover of Rs20,000.

The main gate at the Kathmandu Mall located at Sundhara was closed on Wednesday, and security officials said that it was undergoing renovation after the earthquake damaged the water tank and disrupted the electricity supply. “Probably the mall will resume operations on Sunday or Monday,” said Babin Thapa, security in-charge at the mall.

Likewise, Civil Mall is planning to come back into operation after the damage caused by the earthquake is repaired. “The glass walls, tiles and escalator were damaged by the tremor, and we have to bring some materials from India. So it will take 10-15 days to repair the building,” said Bijay Manandhar, president of the Civil Mall Trade Association.

Published: 07-05-2015 07:27
</text>