<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/nepal-hospital-seeks-more/1830020.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Nepal hospital seeks more medicine to treat quake victims
</headline>

<text>
The National Trauma Centre's main concern is not staff, however, but medicine. It had only a limit local supply from the outset and that was quickly exhausted.

KATHMANDU: Ten-year old Kamala Tamang was alone in the jungle when the earthquake rattled her home district of Singhupalchok. Her mother, in panic, raced to find her dazed, frightened and with a large cut to her head after being struck by a landslide.



Kamala Tamang, 10, was alone in the jungle when the earthquake rattled her home district of Singhupalchok. (Photo: Jack Board)

"When we went to look for the children we found her next to the hill with blood everywhere and she wasn't breathing," said mother Bineeta Tamang. "I carried her on my back and brought her to the village, gave her water and only then she started breathing."



Kamala Tamang, 10, with her mother Bineeta in hospital. (Photo: Jack Board)

Advertisement

Advertisement

After the family made the long journey to Kathmandu, Kamala continued to be treated at the National Trauma Centre for her wounds and the psychological scars.



Kamala is surrounded by dozens of other earthquake victims, some lying prone, others curled up in anguish on thin hospital beds. The air has a stale smell of flesh, not the sterile smell one might associate with a hospital ward.



Another quake victim at the National Trauma Centre in Kathmandu, Nepal. (Photo: Jack Board)

Thousands of people have passed through the wings of the National Trauma Centre since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on Apr 25. The hospital has performed dozens of major surgeries and has been pushed to its operational limits.



"The first day there were thousands of people brought here, and because this place is small, we cannot hold the patients inside the hospital; we had to treat the patients in the street, said Prof Dr Ganesh Bahadur Gurung, the Vice Chancellor of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, the man managing the operations of the hospital.



"That was really a very tense situation," he said. "Around this area a lot of houses collapsed, so people have been brought at this time and many of the patients were in a bad condition. In this hospital there is still a long queue for an operation."



Jayan Joshi was trapped under a fallen temple with his young daughter and is still waiting for surgery on his badly broken leg. "The temple was falling down and I ran away, and I was half buried," he said.



Jayan Joshi broke his leg when he and his daughter were buried under a temple. (Photo: Jack Board)

Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Santosh Paudel said the most common injuries are like Jayan's, often severe limb injuries. He and his team worked for nearly 24 hours a day for the first three days following the quake, and though things are starting to settle, he said it has been a stressful experience.



"Though I've managed road traffic accidents and other emergencies, but the maximum load would be 50 to 100 cases, but this is a huge disaster I'm managing for the first time," he said.



The hospital's main concern is not staff, however, but medicine. It had only a limit local supply from the outset and that was quickly exhausted. "We need more higher antibiotics because the people who are surviving have more serious infections and many of them have a chest infection or ADRS (acute respiratory distress syndrome) or even multi-organ failure," said Prof Dr Gurung. "They need to be treated in a special intensive care unit."



The National Trauma Centre in Kathmandu is seeking for more medical supplies. (Photo: Jack Board)

The Bir Hospital's new ICU was badly damaged in the earthquake and given a red assessment by engineers, which means it needs to be reconstructed or refitted.



The hospital has also become launching point for aid into isolated areas and experienced an inundation of donations of clothing, food and water, mostly coordinated entirely by young volunteers.

Many areas are still in dire need of medical assistance, but a Nepal government health official requested no more international medical teams enter the country for earthquake relief.



Dr Khem Bdr. Karki, who is coordinating the overseas teams in Nepal through the Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) said there are too many personnel already on the ground, but there is still lack of necessary supplies and medical aid.



"We have an oversupply of the medical personnel," he told Channel NewsAsia. At this time, as coordinator of these medical teams I'm receiving a lot of medical teams and I've requested them to hold in their countries."



"Many people are out there ready to help Nepal but we are holding them because there is an oversupply. We need very small, small team, two or three people who can go to the villages," he said.



The Ministry of Health says it's lucky so much support is coming Nepal's way but what it badly needs most is supplies, including dressing materials, antibiotics, painkillers and vaccines.
</text>