<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/i-wasn-t-sure-if-we-could/1830504.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
‘I wasn’t sure if we could make it out alive”: Singapore doctor caught in Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
A 13-strong team from Singapore, co-led by medical doctor Dr Joshua Chua, had travelled to Nepal to work with local NGOs, but the devastating earthquake on Apr 25 almost turned their plans upside down.

SINGAPORE: April 25 started as just another day in Chalnakhel, a village in Nepal about seven kilometres from the capital of Kathmandu. A group of 13 Singaporeans were at New Life Handicap Ministry, one day into their 10-day trip to work with the non-governmental organisation (NGO).

Packed into a room at the basement of the Ministry’s prayer tower, the Singaporeans and their Nepalese hosts were in the middle of a service when the earth shook beneath their feet. Someone shouted: “Earthquake! Earthquake!” and everyone rushed out of the room, and up into the open courtyard next to the building.

One of the team leaders, Joshua Chua, recounted the moment: “We all felt a very violent tremor, and ran out of the service room. It was chaotic during those initial moments, and I wasn’t sure if all my team members were safe or got trapped in the building.

“I wasn’t sure we could make it out alive. After all, we’re Singaporeans, and are not really prepared for natural disasters such as this.”

Dr Chua, 29, is a medical doctor in the public primary healthcare landscape who was in Nepal in his personal capacity. He is also a director of Seeds of Nations, a Christian NGO that focuses on “projects that bring health and education to needy people in different parts of the world”, the doctor told Channel NewsAsia in an interview on Wednesday (May 7).

The team had travelled to Nepal to work with two of Seeds of Nations’ longstanding partners: New Life Handicap Ministry, a Kathmandu-based home that takes in both the physically and mentally handicapped who have been ostracised by society, and New Hope Ministry, which helps at-risk and/or trafficked women and children. The team was mostly comprised of doctors and social workers, he said.

Advertisement

Advertisement

“IT WAS QUITE AMAZING”

Out in the open, Dr Chua saw that the prayer tower they were in just moments ago was relatively unscathed. Around them, however, neighbouring buildings were not so lucky: Some were damaged from the 7.8-magnitude earthquake, while others were destroyed.

“It was really quite amazing to see that our building was standing and unharmed,” he said. “Also amazing was the truck the Ministry had was also untouched and functional. We really thanked God for that.”

A collapsed temple structure was salvaged and brought to the middle of the road by locals. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

However, the local government deemed all buildings unfit for living, and the team and their hosts had to relocate to an adjacent vegetable farm. It became a communal shelter, as others from neighbouring buildings also took refuge there, he said.

Communications, too, were hit. For the first six hours, landline and mobile signals were down, and the team could not get in touch with anyone in Singapore. The only source of connection was a satellite phone, from which the head of New Life Handicap Ministry, Pastor Narayan, got intermittent information from local authorities.

The first 12 to 24 hours were the “most challenging”, said Dr Chua. In that first day after the quake hit, the team had no electrical supply and also ran out of water. The vegetable farm people were huddled in was also exposed to the elements - on top of rain in the night, there were also tigers and other roaming wild animals that posed a risk.

The Seeds of Nations team at their makeshift home during the initial post-quake days. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

Compounding problems were reports that bandits were out on the streets to exploit the vulnerable during those initial moments following the earthquake, said Dr Chua.

Thankfully, the team eventually managed to get water from a nearby spring, and food from a wholesale market that remained open despite being damaged from the earthquake too, he said.

The damaged wholesale produce market. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

They were also able to get in touch with their loved ones in Singapore after the initial 24 hours, and Singapore’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs also managed to check in on the team. A choice was then put to the team: Stay on and continue the work they had set out to do, or head to Kathmandu to be evacuated.

“A couple of the team members initially wanted to return home,” said Dr Chua. “However, due to various circumstances, they decided to stay on. In the end, after much deliberation and consultation with their family members, all 13 agreed to stay on and complete the 10-day trip.”

Crowds milling at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu on the second day after the quake, as people looked to leave Nepal. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

LIMITED OPPORTUNITIES TO OFFER MEDICAL HELP

In the team, there were four doctors and a dentist. On the second day following the quake, two of the doctors had offered their services to a local hospital and helped for a brief time with initial assessment and diagnosis of the patients streaming in.

In the end, all they could offer were basic medical services, said Dr Chua: “We were not plugged in to the national healthcare infrastructure, and could not operate on patients. There were also a lot of foreign medical workers starting to descend on Nepal, and the local healthcare staff had become more resistant to accepting aid from outside sources.”

Dr Chua's observation was confirmed by Nepalese authorities. Dr Khem Bdr Karki, who is coordinating overseas teams in Nepal through the Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP), told Channel NewsAsia on Wednesday (May 6) that there was an "oversupply" of medical personnel, but not enough medical supplies, water purification systems and personal hygiene kits.

Patients being evacuated from the local hospital after a strong aftershock was felt a day after the initial earthquake. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

“HEARTWRENCHING SIGHT”

The team spent the following days interacting with the children and those living at the homes of New Life Handicap Ministry and New Hope Ministry. They held educational classes, spent time encouraging and praying for those affected by the quake, and helped in getting basic necessities such as water and food.

Dr Joshua Chua and team bringing some cheer to the local children, amid the gloom brought forth from the earthquake. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

It was only on the second-last day of the trip, when conditions had somewhat stabilised and phone networks were up, that they managed to travel out of Chalnakhel towards some of the more outlying villages.

Led by Pastor Narayan, the team went to the wholesale market and bought supplies such as a quarter tonne of rice, 100kg of cabbage, dahl and water to distribute to needy families.

The food rations such as cabbages that were distributed. These were vegetables that were salvaged from farms and sold to the team at 40 per cent off the usual rate. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

Team members bringing rice to those who need it. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

Travelling down south and passing landmarks such as the Dakshinkali Temple, Dr Chua said he saw many people walking on foot or on overcrowded buses leaving scenes of devastated homes and shophouses. Local water and food distribution points were also filled with people, while those who have collected their portions make the slow trek back on foot to where their homes used to be.

“It was a heartwrenching sight,” he said.

A long trek up mountainous areas were necessary to bring rations to families housed off the main roads. (Photo: Joshua Chua)

From what he had seen, Dr Chua said that as these places lack access to the public healthcare system, acute medical care and medicine are needed. Proper sanitation and temporary shelter such as tents and tarpaulin are also required, to prevent infectious diseases from setting in – a common problem following natural disasters, he added.

The 13 Singaporeans on the team eventually flew back to Singapore – on the original Malaysia Airlines and SilkAir commercial flights they had booked themselves on – on May 3.

Looking ahead, Dr Chua said he “definitely plans to return to Nepal in the next few months”, given the longstanding friendships and relationships established with their counterparts in the country.

As of Thursday, the death toll in Nepal has reached 7,675, with more than 16,300 people injured, according to the government.

Catch the interview with Dr Joshua Chua on Singapore Tonight, 10pm, on Thursday (May 7).
</text>