<url>
http://www.cravenherald.co.uk/news/12935907.display/
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Settle charity launches appeal to help quake victims in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
SETTLE-based charity Kids at School in Nepal - which recently celebrated its tenth anniversary - has launched an appeal to help those hit by the devastating magnitude-7.8 earthquake that hit the country nearly two weeks ago.

More than 6,000 people are known to have died and 14,000 were injured when the earthquake struck on Saturday, April 25. The Nepalese government has warned that the death toll could rise to more than 10,000.

Kids at School in Nepal (KASIN) supports schools and communities around the remote hill village of Phulkharka, which is near the epicentre of the earthquake.

Five hundred homes have been destroyed and at least 15 people killed, with others unaccounted for.

Now KASIN, which was planning to raise money to build new classrooms, is now facing the challenge of rebuilding schools and a lot more besides.

It has launched an appeal and donations can be made online at http://bit.ly/1IrczLq

Chairman Mike Ashton said: "These people are our friends. Two years ago Dinesh Simkhada, the head of one of the schools in Phulkharka, stayed in our house in Malham. We hope he is OK, although we have not had news yet.

"We were already looking for volunteers to go to Phulkharha to help them grow their community before last Saturday's cataclysmic events. It's likely that there will be new needs that people here have the skills to help address."

One problem is that many of the male villagers work abroad so there are few men on the scene to help with the rescue effort.

KASIN secretary Pat Wherity said: "The single dirt track that links Phulkharka with the rest of the world has been destroyed and even many of the footpaths are impassible.

"It wasn't until Wednesday, four days after the earthquake, that an army helicopter finally reached the village. Ninety-eight per cent of the buildings have collapsed and there are still many trapped under the rubble.

"Fortunately the earthquake occurred during the day so most were helping in the fields and, as it was a holiday, none of the children were in school. The only people at home were the very elderly and the very young.

"Jyoti Adikari, who is the vice president of our charity, was here with his family only a couple of weeks ago to attend our 10th anniversary celebration. He comes from Phulkarka and now owns a hotel in Kathmandu. As it is unlikely that any outside help will reach Phulkarka anytime soon, he has organised a rescue mission himself.

"Our charity has sent him £3,000 to help him buy tents and essential foodstuffs but it is a drop in the ocean."

Kids at School in Nepal was founded by Settle octogenarian Arthur Benbow after he cycled through the remote village of Palubari in the Kathmandu Valley and discovered that conditions at the village school were incredibly basic with only one toilet for 80 children and six staff,

Over the past decade, it has raised thousands of pounds to support education in rural Nepal.

For more details, visit kasin.org.uk
</text>