<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/the-press/news/68348092/four-day-search-ends-in-tragedy-for-nepali-chch-man
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Four day search ends in tragedy for Christchurch Nepali man
</headline>

<text>
Four day search ends in tragedy for Christchurch Nepali man

David Ramos/Getty Images Damage in Bhaktapur, Nepal.

A Nepali man from Christchurch who flew home to help rescue family members trapped after the devastating earthquake has had his search end in tragedy.

After four days of digging through piles of rubble, Sanjay Prajapati, 26, his father and neighbours found the bodies of his mother, grandmother and sister.

The death toll from the 7.8-magnitude quake, which struck Nepal on April 25, is more than 7600. Hundreds of thousands of people have been left homeless.

Supplied Nepali chef Sanjay Prajapati (left) flew back to Kathmandu from Christchurch and discovered his mother, grand-mother and sister did not survive when the family home collapsed. Pictured with friend Bibek Bhandari (right) on a holiday in 2013.

READ MORE:

* Dramatic footage of the Nepal Earthquake emerges

* Rescuers find 100-plus bodies under Nepal avalanche

* Nepal, aid agencies trade blame as confusion mars quake relief



A distraught Prajapati flew back to Kathmandu after learning his family home had collapsed in the quake with some family members inside.

Prajapati's best friend in Christchurch, Bibek Bhandari, said he learned of the tragedy from a story about the family in a Nepalese newspaper on Sunday.

&amp;amp;amp;amp;nbsp;

Reuters Soldiers take part in a operation to recover bodies after a massive avalanche triggered by the earthquake overwhelmed Langtang village, Nepal.

"We pretty much knew they had died, but we were hoping for a miracle," Bhandari said.

On Monday, Bhandari spoke to Prajapati for the first time since he left New Zealand.

He told Prajapati he knew what had happened, so Prajapati would not have to tell him.

"It's really hard to say that, I didn't want him to have to say it."

Prajapati's mother, grandmother and sister were cremated and friends and family had begun a traditional 13-day period of mourning.

In New Zealand, The Nepal New Zealand Friendship Society has been overwhelmed by support, raising $100,000 for relief efforts, president Rajesh Dhakal said.

The society set up a fundraising site the day after the earthquake struck.

Dhakal said half of the funds had already been used to help about 30 voluntary community groups distribute food, water, shelter and medical supplies.

The Nepalese community was thankful for the generosity and support from New Zealand, he said.

Some of the funds raised by the society have also supported the work of Student Volunteer Army founder Sam Johnson, who went to Nepal last week. Johnson was invited to Kathmandu by the Global Peace Foundation and Nepalese Ministry of Youth to support recovery efforts.



Christchurch advocacy groups the Ministry of Awesome, Exchange Christchurch and C-lab are offering their co-working spaces in exchange for donations to fundraise for the Nepal New Zealand Friendship Society of Canterbury's NZ4Nepal campaign. The office spaces are available during the week of May 11-15. Contact Catarina Gutierrez, Ministry of Awesome, catarina@ministryofawesome.com.

Peter Joseph Curreen, 63, from Karamea, on the West Coast, was in Nepal when the quake struck and remained unaccounted for. A family member told Fairfax Media he had not been heard from since the earthquake.

- Stuff
</text>