<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/nepal-victims-families-praise-uae-search-and-rescue-team-s-efforts
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Nepal victims’ families praise UAE search and rescue team’s efforts
</headline>

<text>
KTHMANDU, 4th May 2015 (WAM) - Families of victims of the devastating earthquake that hit Nepal praised the efforts exerted by the UAE Search and Rescue Team in carrying out medical and humanitarian services to the affected population, in addition to supporting hospitals with modern medical equipment.

Lt. Colonel Mohammed Abdul Jalil Al Ansari, Head of the UAE Search and Rescue Team, and Director General of the Abu Dhabi Civil Defense said: "The UAE team was deployed to support the international relief operations in Nepal upon the wise directives of President His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan and His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the UAE Armed Forces. The mission is also closely monitored by Lt. General HH Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior."

Adding further, Lt. Colonel Al Ansari said: "Lt. General HH Sheikh Saif bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior has given orders to mobilize the team to relief the people of Nepal, with an Emirati team of 88 professionals, including officers and rescuers, with equipment and tools necessary for the search and rescue operations. The Team immediately established a work plan to provide logistic support as a part of the international relief efforts. The plan also included providing medical services to patients and equipment to hospitals, as well as additional training to hard-pushed Nepalese doctors and nurses who must cope with the injured. The UAE team is also joined by UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination staff."

Lt. Colonel Al Ansari also explained that the Decision Making Support Group under the UAE Search and Rescue Team provided the necessary training to the Communications Group affiliated with the Omani and Malaysian Search and Rescue Teams. The training focused on the methods of managing the UN Field Operations Coordination Center. This will help both teams prepare for international classification in 2016 and 2017.

It is worth mentioning that Lt. Colonel Al Ansari is the first youngest Arab to hold the position of Vice President of the United Nations’ International Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG) Lt. Colonel Al Ansari was awarded the 2014 Best on-Field Officer Award from the General Directorate of Central Operations; his operational expertise helped the UAE Search and Rescue Team become internationally recognized as the first team of the "Medium Category" in the Middle East and Africa.

Lt. Colonel Al Ansari also carried out a similar project which helped transform the UAE Search and Rescue Team from the "Medium Category" into the "Heavy Category," making it the first internationally recognized team to achieve the classification. He also helped lead several search and rescue services development projects at Abu Dhabi Police, including the Bicycle Ambulance Project, which is used in heavily trafficked areas and major events. Other projects carried out by the Emergency and Public Safety Department at Abu Dhabi Police have been able to attain the confidence and satisfaction of the public with a ratio of 91.9% in the quality of provided medical services in the aid and rescue field.

WAM/bashir
</text>