<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/06/opinion/devastated-but-not-defeated/404883.html
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Devastated but not defeated
</headline>

<text>
May 6, 2015-

We, the Nepali diaspora, are heartbroken at the immense tragedy of the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal on April 25. We are deeply saddened by the loss of countless lives. We are shaken by the injuries, hardships, and psychological trauma that the survivors are going through. The UN estimates that 8 million people have been affected, and in this difficult time of national mourning, our thoughts and prayers are with you.

Inspiring people

Amidst this despair and heartbreaking tragedy, the courageous people of Nepal make us hopeful about this nation. History tells a story of strength, perseverance, and ability. Nepal has never lost man-made battles and wars. Nepal rose against the atrocity of the Rana regime, the suppression of the Panchayat regime, corruption under the multi-party system, and takeover of power by Gyanendra. It will not be nature that forces such daring people to succumb to defeat.

The everyday Nepali people are an example of how one can remain optimistic even when faced with colossal adversity. They are especially a source of inspiration for us, the diaspora. Their perseverance, hope, and unwavering foresight to see the silver lining of any dark cloud is inspiring. The outpouring of emotional, physical, and financial support from community volunteers has been exemplary. It is this binding of individual ability and social support that makes this nation commendable. It is this social capital that will lead Nepal to rise from the rubble.

Derailed nation

Unfortunately, throughout history, the national polity has not lived up to the calibre of its people. The case in point is that instead of creating a situation that mitigates the impacts of the quake, Nepal’s public policies have created one that magnifies them. Public policy mistakes in the last several decades have increased the risk of casualties and have made rescue operations cumbersome in urban areas and impossible in rural areas. Moreover, there is no preparedness on handling such disasters; every new disaster is another start from scratch.

In the last few decades, there were several reports from experts warning of the danger of a violent earthquake that may cause enormous loss of lives, especially in the Kathmandu Valley. Given this, a responsible nation would formulate policies that would lead to a drastic voluntary downsizing of Kathmandu Valley, and a formation of five to ten economically and administratively viable regional centres across the country. It would develop an emergency preparedness plan, have rescue machineries in the arsenal, and recruit a core group of armed forces that can deal with the impending situation.

Instead, nothing was done. On the contrary, the major thrust of public (economic, social, and employment) policies has been to pour money into the Valley to concentrate public facilities such as universities, hospitals, and government offices. The Valley, with 10 percent of Nepal’s population, receives almost half of the government budget each year. As this is the singular destination for aspiring individuals and families, many establish a home in the Valley, either as a tenant or an owner. This perverse priority has killed two golden gooses with one stone. First, it has increased the risk of casualties and second, it has deprived the remaining country of viable administrative units that can deal regionally in case of emergencies.

Furthermore, the best practices in urban planning have been ignored. There is a multitude of global knowledge around which make of buildings are safer for earthquake-prone areas. But instead of writing laws and rules that adhere to the best practices, Nepali policymakers have ignored them. In Nepal, there are too many regulations where they are not required (red tape) and no regulations where they are needed the most. There are limited building codes and safety codes. And when they do exist, there is no enforcement. Safety is compromised.

Regarding rescue capability, there are massive barriers as well. Even in normal times, Kathmandu is an ill-run city, characterised by an abundance of political paralyses and a shortage of roads, drinking water, and electricity. How a city with such an infrastructure deficiency can cope with the emergency? In the name of beautifying the Capital, the nation has created a dangerous trap zone. Furthermore, policies have made all of Nepal, except the Valley, remote, even in normal times. The lack of regional centres that can deal with even a small emergency has made the rest of Nepal more remote than it actually is.

The nation did not learn from the last earthquake of 1988 and earthquake preparedness in other countries. Now, it is painfully clear that there were no emergency preparedness plans, no rescue tools, and no trained personnel. Rather than forming policies that acknowledge the danger of the geographic location of the country and the toughness and remoteness of different areas, Nepal has derailed in the opposite direction. There can be no scapegoats, but collectively, there has to be a lot of soul searching.

Marching resolutely

Lost lives cannot be brought back. Nepal will not be the same again. This generation will not forget what happened. But the loss of wealth of world heritage, the infrastructure and the capital structure can be recovered. The early estimate is that it might take anything ranging from 20 to 40 percent of Nepal’s today’s GDP of $19 billion for reconstruction. It means that if it had happened in high-growth countries, they would have recovered within three to five years. But for Nepal’s stagnated economy, it will take six to ten years. This is a monumental loss. However, knowing that there will be reconstruction packages flowing from the outside, the pressing issue may not be a lack of resources but their utilisation.

There are lessons to be learned. In the past, the nation has missed every opportunity to be safer, stronger, more inclusive, and prosperous. Enough is enough. The nation should set the course of the long march of rebuilding and igniting the forces of economic development with absolute resolve.

Dear Nepali politicians, this is your turn to have the same spirit, determination and courage as ordinary Nepalis. You can read their lips. They want you to grab the rubble in your fists and promise: ‘We will not squander this nation any more!’

Acharya is a Canada-based economist who conducts research on economic policies (acharya.ramc@gmail.com)

Published: 06-05-2015 07:18
</text>