<url>
http://www.timesofmalta.com/articles/view/20150506/local/maltese-photographer-captures-the-drama-from-nepal-quake-epicentre.567073
</url>

<date>
20150506
</date>

<headline>
Maltese photographer captures the drama from Nepal quake epicentre
</headline>

<text>
The horrors of the earthquake in Nepal were witnessed by Maltese photographer Jan Zammit over the past week.

More than 7,000 people died in the powerful quake a week ago which reduced many villages to rubble. Thousands more are missing.

Jan Zammit

Mr Zammit joined rescue teams from Korea, Norway and Israel in the search for survivors. He witnessed the desperation of those searching for their loved ones, the funeral pyres for some of the victims, and the hope of those who survived.

“They have nothing, they lost everything, they’re running out of food, yet they still offering me food and water. Nobody beats the Nepalese,” Jan said.

Jan had spent three months in Nepal, before he headed out to India. But he decided to fly back to Kathmandu as soon as he heard about an earthquake whose effects will be felt for years.

“I had fallen in love with the people, the culture, the food and just about everything Nepal has to offer, but mostly I was concerned about the Nepali friends I had made here who I couldn’t get in touch with,” Jan told The Sunday Times of Malta.

He said the most devastating loss to Kathmandu was the world-famous Durbar Square, a 1,000-year-old UNESCO World Heritage site. The real devastation lies in the hundreds of outlying small towns and villages.

“We are talking about villages built in huge valleys at the base of the Himalayas which were subjected to the worst possible landslides. The Americans arrived on Sunday morning, and Wednesday was the first time they got called into a site... luckily they saved a 15-year-old boy. On Wednesday, the Norwegians saved a female survivor with the help of the French and Israelis.

“Though I've seen far too many dead bodies for a lifetime, the mood on the ground is surprisingly positive and optimistic,” Jan said.

The Nepalese have always been happy people, but this tragedy just made them more “incredible”. They have taken matters into their own hands. They built makeshift tents in open areas because they are still scared to sleep inside their homes. Others simply have no home to go to.

“They are scouring what’s left of their homes for any remaining belongings they could find, ranging from sacks of rice, to jewellery, televisions, fridges...”

There is no looting and the situation in the destroyed streets is very calm. During search and rescue operations they adamantly stick behind the police line and do not interfere.

“They are simply worried for their friends and neighbours.”

www.janzammit.com
</text>