<url>
http://www.afr.com/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-bishop-says-over-200-australians-confirmed-safe-20150426-1mtcwd
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Bishop says more than 200 Australians confirmed safe
</headline>

<text>
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says embassy officials have confirmed the safety of more than 200 Australians but hundreds of families face a nervous wait as officials locate the other 349 Australians registered in Nepal. Australia will send a crisis response team as soon as possible and provide $5 million in emergency aid to Nepal, where the death toll from the magnitude 7.9 earthquake has exceeded 1800. "While there are reports of extensive loss of life, at this point there are no reports of Australian deaths," Ms Bishop said in a statement on Sunday. "The Australian Embassy in Kathmandu is working closely with Nepalese authorities and other donors to assess the full extent of the disaster," Ms Bishop's said.

Social media inundated

Worried relatives have inundated social media with pleas for help and information. Twitter and Facebook pages are showing images of Australians in Nepal while many families have reported dozens of loved ones missing on The Red Cross' Family Links website. One is 24-year-old Sydney business owner Matthew Graves, who was travelling through Pokhara. His brother, Mitch Graves, is at home in Sydney waiting for news while their parents are overseas in America. "It's a bit of a struggle trying to communicate to everyone. It is a waiting game at the moment," he told AAP. The younger brother of Australian actor Hugh Sheridan is also missing. "Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest," Mr Sheridan tweeted. Deb Williams is still waiting for news about her Brisbane-based son Jai, who was due to be at Mount Everest base camp on Saturday. Mr Williams was trekking with his friend Ben Flanders.

Perth woman Ballantyne Paige Forder, who is believed to have been working in an orphanage in Kathmandu at the time of the quake, has been found safe. The 22-year-old contacted her family on Sunday after helping move the orphanage where she worked to a field. Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted on Sunday: "My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety". Prayers for the missing Shadow minister for foreign affairs Tanya Plibersek expressed "deep sadness" at the news, saying her "thoughts are with the people of both Nepal and India, the injured, and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the tragedy". NSW Premier Mike Baird is praying for the safety of travellers missing in the region. "This is a terrible tragedy and our sympathies go out to all the many thousands that are affected," he said.

"In particular, our thoughts are with those Australians who have not been accounted for, and their families. "We hope and pray that they are safe." Queensland Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk says her department is trying to make contact with the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which is yet to issue a statement about any Australians who might have been caught up in the disaster. The Premier says only one Queenslander has been confirmed missing, even though the Red Cross lists more. "My information is that there is one, but we are in contact to try and get more information," she said on Sunday.

Global pledges of support UK Prime Minister David Cameron described the deaths as "shocking news" in a Twitter post. "The UK will do all we can to help those caught up in it," he said. "Germany stands ready to help in whatever way it can" once it becomes clear what support Nepalese authorities need, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in an email. IMF managing director Christine Lagarde expressed "deepest sympathies" to the people of Nepal and said in a statement she'd coordinate with the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and other agencies to provide help.
</text>