<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3071279/Feeling-different-taken-place-12-days-Hugh-Sheridan-farewells-Nepal-controversial-trip-meet-brother.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Hugh Sheridan farewells Nepal after his trip to meet his brother Zachary
</headline>

<text>
Australian actor Hugh Sheridan has shared a nostalgic social media post after arriving home from his controversial trip to devastated Nepal.

The 29-year-old was flown to the country via helicopter by Channel Seven's Sunday Night, which filmed Sheridan's reunion with his younger brother Zachary, who had been in Nepal during the 7.8 magnitude earthquake which killed over 6000 people and left many Australian's missing.

The move was blasted and dubbed as grand-standing and TV insincerity by social media users and even Channel Seven host Andrew O'Keefe - who later backed down from his criticism.

But the opposition has not stopped Sheridan from documenting his time in the country and imploring his social media followers to donate to those affected.

Scroll down for video

Hugh Sheridan shared a nostalgic social media post on Thursday after arriving home from his controversial trip to devastated Nepal: 'Not going to forget these brave little legends,' the actor wrote in the caption of a photo of himself with two young locals boys

The 29-year-old was flown to Nepal by Channel Seven's Sunday Night, which filmed Sheridan's reunion with his younger brother Zachary, who had been in Nepal during the 7.8 magnitude earthquake which killed over 6000 people and left many Australian's missing

'Not going to forget these brave little legends,' the actor wrote in the caption of a photo of himself with two young locals boys on Instagram on Thursday.

'Back to life as it was but feeling very different for what has taken place over the last 12 days.

'I can't stop thinking about the kind people of #Nepal and what they are going through. I won't keep nagging but please think of them, if you can #donate ensure your money will go directly to the people especially in the villages where aid still hasn't reached.

'My thoughts especially are with those still unaccounted for Ty from Taree, I pray you find contact in coming days. Much love everyone. #godblessnepal #speaklove.'

'I can't stop thinking about the kind people of #Nepal and what they are going through': Opposition and grand-standing claims did not stop Sheridan from documenting his time in the country and imploring his social media followers to donate to those affected

Sheridan had seen a message from Zach as he touched down in Kathmandu informing friends and family he was ok

Hugh Sheridan (pictured) took to social media to defend his actions on Sunday night and thanked Channel 7 for their efforts in helping him reach his brother

An earlier post revealed one of the young boys in the picture was Saajan Napit, who Sheridan wrote had lost his school along with thousands of others, adding: 'thousands have lost their homes, hundreds have lost their parents and may now need to find work or move to an orphanage. Many children are still missing'.

Sheridan travelled to disaster ravaged Nepal with the Channel Seven team and Sunday Night along with his other brother Tom, but discovered that his little brother was alive just after landing in Kathmandu.

He stayed at the four star Shangri-La hotel while assisting in relief efforts during the severe state of emergency, causing questioning from social media users.

'I have no update from Zach yet,' he wrote on Instagram after his arrival, 'I'll let you all know as soon as I do. Put your prayers into the people still unaccounted for and for #nepal the damage here is unbelievable and they are a beautiful people. I've spent the day trying to be useful for the local people.'

Zach has been trekking along the lower peaks of Mount Everest when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit

The 20-year-old had invited his big brother to come on the adventure with him but Hugh could not

When the show aired on Sunday night, Sheridan was filmed asking his brother if he was OK before tightly embracing him.

'I just wanted to grab and hold him... I was prepared to climb Mount Everest to look for him,' Sheridan told Sunday Night reporter Dr Andrew Rochford.

Zachary Sheridan travelled to Nepal to climb the lower peaks of Mount Everest and had invited his big brother to join his trek, but he wanted to depart sooner than Sheridan could.

'I said I'd go with him and asked why don't we wait until next year, but he was keen to do it,' he said.

Sunday Night's decision to document the Sheridan reunion came under fire from social media users and Seven's own staff.

After finding out Zach was safe, The ambassador for World Vision decided to stay and assist

Sheridan travelled to disaster ravaged Nepal with Channel Seven and Sunday Night along with his brother Tom

One Twitter user, @timmydownawell commented: 'Seriously @sundaynighton7 who gives a s**t about Hugh Sheridan flying to Nepal to find his wealthy globetrotting brother. 5000+ ppl are dead.'

Damian Chandler wrote: 'I see @Channel7 and @Sundaynighton7 are trying to cash in on a tragedy by sending a crew with Hugh Sheridan to Nepal.'

After the show aired, Sheridan took to social media to defend his actions and thank Channel 7 for their efforts in helping him reach his brother.

'Just to update everyone, last week Zachy declined help from myself or anyone else saying 'please do not come for me, I am fine, there is so much pain everywhere else',' Mr Sheridan's Instagram post said.

Sheridan also beamed as he greeted Zachary's tour guide, Om, thanking him for 'bringing him back'

Sheridan has been reunited with his little brother Zachary after he was trekking Mount Everest in Nepal

'Think of this country and its amazing people who are in dire need of support,' Zachary Sheridan (right) said after seeing his family

'While waiting on his return, I've been working with our brother Tom and locals in Kathmandu clearing wreckage. I feel privileged to be here helping, if it wasn't for Zach I wouldn't have booked my ticket (silver lining).

'We'd like to thank 7 for sending a crew out to tag along in case my brother was in danger, THANK YOU GOD we never needed reinforcements, can't imagine anyone in our position would pass on the opportunity for additional aid to a loved one in a disaster zone.'

Channel Seven host Andrew O'Keefe described the decision to send a crew to Nepal for a story as 'a bloody disgrace'.

O'Keefe emailed his Sunrise executive bosses on Thursday evening and expressed his strong disapproval at Seven's actions and requested not to be assigned to an interview for the morning show. He said co-host Samantha Armytage shared his views.

Zachary Sheridan was at Gokyo peak in the Himalayan mountains when the earthquake hit. Mount Everest's base camp (pictured) was also badly hit by an avalanche

Last week, Sheridan, 29, tweeted that Zachary was hiking Mt Everest when the catastrophic 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck

Acting Sunrise co-host Andrew O'Keefe said Network Seven's coverage of Sheridan's trip to Nepal was disgraceful, an explosive internal email obtained by Daily Mail Australia reveals

'Sorry to be a pain, but this thing is a bloody disgrace and I see there's already a lot of public backlash about it,' O'Keefe said in the email obtained by Daily Mail Australia.

He has since backed away from his criticism saying he has had a change of heart now that he knows all the facts.

The program's executive producer Steve Taylor on Saturday issued a statement defending the segment, calling it 'a powerful report about a terrible natural disaster'.

'A media crew going to a trouble spot and inquiring about transport is not a story. Other media covering the story have done the same,' Mr Taylor's statement says.

The country's helicopters are being used in search and rescue operations and to deliver aid as part of the relief efforts

O'Keefe has since backed down from his scathing criticism of Network Seven's decision to follow actor Hugh Sheridan to earthquake-ravaged Nepal

'We did not hire a helicopter. We certainly did not seek to put ourselves ahead of any local humanitarian effort.

'The allegation that we would put ourselves ahead of the relief effort is utterly wrong, deeply offensive and a shameful claim.

'When Sunday Night began the journey with Hugh Sheridan, his brother had been missing for days and no one knew if he was alive or dead. We sent Dr Andrew Rochford so he could bring his emergency medical skills and expertise to the analysis of the injuries and the medical relief effort and to help where he could.

'Yesterday he was asked by local authorities to a remote quake-damaged community to do just that. Until his visit today the village has so far missed out on any medical attention.'

A Nepalese earthquake victims looks on among debris of collapsed buildings in Bhaktapur, Nepal

An injured victim of Saturday's earthquake, evacuated by Nepalese army, is carried down from a helicopter in Katmandu, Nepal
</text>