<url>
http://crookedtrails.org/one-week-of-emotions-doing-relief-work-from-my-desk-in-seattle/
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
One week of emotions doing relief work from my desk in Seattle
</headline>

<text>
By Christine Mackay, Executive Director for Crooked Trails

When I heard about the Nepal quake on that fateful Saturday morning in April, I was in shock. In fact I did nothing, I felt nothing, like a slate board that had been wiped clean. It was too much. I could not move, a frozen mannequin staring at the computer, scrolling through news articles from the U.K., U.S., India and Nepal. The nothingness was slowly displaced, like a cup filling up and inevitably flowing over. I was completely and totally overwhelmed – enter grief, and a flood of tears.

I love Nepal. I fell in love with her the first time I saw her 16 years ago, from the window of the jet as it soared past the Himalayas and landed in the Kathmandu Valley, sweeping by precariously built 8 story brick buildings. I remember the first time I saw those buildings I thought, “bad place for an earthquake.” Since that first landing, I have learned that the Kathmandu Valley indeed sits on a very active plate and large earthquakes come about every 75 years. I reflect on that every time I go to Nepal, always thinking – today could be the day.

After 6 hours of watching the horror of the tragedy unfold on my computer screen and frantically trying to reach people I know in Nepal, we convened a meeting of staff and volunteers at Crooked Trails to discuss what we could do. The first thing would be to raise funds, and so we started the #give3nepal campaign. The next two days were about determination to help. And so I spent my time alternating between wiping the tears away and pecking furiously at the keyboard. This is what I call my frantic stage. It all felt so urgent, and I felt so helpless. But the funds kept coming in, and by Wednesday we had $18,000, and I commenced wiring over $14,000, and another $4,000 on Thursday.

Friday morning I moved into my panic stage when I read an article that stated the Nepali government was siphoning off all incoming wire transfers for relief efforts and pooling them in their own Ministry of Relief fund. I knew what that meant! Panic, disbelief and profound anger flooded my veins. How could they? THIEVES! I was shattered thinking the money I had raised for the village of Chandani was about to be dumped into government troughs. On Friday morning I hysterically called my wire transfer representative. Two hours later I was told they were able to stop the transfers! They must have intercepted it in the ether somewhere over China. I was thrilled!

It was now time for frustration. For the following three days I communicated with people on the ground in Nepal about how to get funds there. I was looking at using my Bhutanese and Indian contacts as well as using human mules from the U.S. carrying $10,000 each. I was then forwarded an article from a Nepali newspaper stating that only funds for new NGOs started after April 25th would be subjected to the “siphoning” law and that all longstanding NGOs would not be affected. Figuring we were now in the clear, I skyped my Nepali partner NGO and they cautioned me not to send the funds, as they were not sure it would make it. More anger and scheming in my mind. And during these 3 days I am also desperately trying to secure a 747 that I’m certain I can fill with gear. Me and my big ideas.

Monday morning at 8 am, I woke to an email confirming all funds can be received, and I wired over $25,000 on May 4th to purchase tarps and food for 1,100 households in the village I am so close to – where I have been going for 7 years and Crooked Trails has built a school among other projects, and made strong ties. When I pressed send on that transfer I felt something I hadn’t felt in 6 days: relief.

Meanwhile, I work on gathering supplies, thanking donors, updating social media and communicating with Nepali communities and partners about re-building efforts. Now I enter my phase of determination and hope. Hope that we can pull off a big fundraiser that could help us kick start the rebuilding I am determined to do.

Last night I got a call from the young son in my host family in Nepal. His little voice comes across the waves, “How are you sistah? I am verrry fine…” rolling the r the way they do. “House is gone, cow is dead.” He said it in the upbeat voice of a kid that has no idea how bad this all really is.
</text>