<url>
http://www.lewisboroledger.com/23386/concert-for-nepal-unites-musicians-community/
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Concert for Nepal unites musicians
</headline>

<text>
Like the presto tempo of a symphony, Katonah native Daniel Linden rushed to put together a fundraising concert to help the victims of the Nepal earthquake that hit outside Kathmandu April 25.

Linden, a 2004 graduate of John Jay High School, has been living for the last five years in Nepal, where he has established his own nonprofit organization called the Gharana Music Foundation that promotes classical music in Nepal.

For the last week, he has been organizing the Concert for Nepal that will be held at the Katonah Village Library at 6:30 p.m. Saturday, May 9.

“The first few days after the earthquake, the tension of not knowing when the next tremor would come or how big it would be consumed most of my thoughts,” Linden said. “But once I realized that the recent work I had been doing through Gharana Music Foundation put me in a position to raise more funds for relief and rebuilding, I emailed some musicians, and with the help of my team members in the U.S. and Nepal, we put it together in about 10 days.”

Despite the short notice, Linden was able to get classical guitarists Rupert Boyd and Ana Maria Rosado, cellist Laura Metcalf and violinist Thomas Martin to come on board.

The team effort will go a long way toward helping the country, he said.

“It feels good to work with people who are encouraging and to be in communication with them constantly,” Linden said. “As a classical guitarist, it’s easy to find yourself working alone. This type of organizational work is stimulating because there are many others involved, and their support and feedback is constantly motivational. …

“The situation is extremely tragic and the country is devastated on many levels, but people are amazing and resilient, especially in times of hardship, and for the most part everyone is doing their best to help others, volunteering in any way they can,” he added. “Social media is facilitating the distribution of important information, dispelling a few counterproductive rumors, and helping to coordinate local relief efforts.”

The shock

The musician considers himself lucky that he and his wife weren’t affected when the violent quake hit.

“She is Nepali and her family is OK as well, so we are very grateful for that,” he said. “Experiencing the actual earthquake was surreal. I felt a lot of pressure at first and didn’t understand what was happening for a few seconds. Then I saw everyone running out of the restaurant where I was eating at the time, so I followed and it was difficult to walk.

“It was an out-of-this-world feeling that was extremely unsettling physically and mentally, and that feeling stayed with me for a few days and is still lingering a week later,” he recalled. “I kept feeling like the earth was still shaking even when tremors weren’t coming.”

He remembers seeing a wall crash down in front of him, and that’s when reality sunk in.

“I suddenly realized that I was in a serious natural disaster — that it was completely out of my control, and that the end might come at any moment,” Linden said. “As soon as the ground became relatively stable, I started calling my wife, who was out with her sister riding on her motor scooter, but the entire nation was trying to get on the phone and the network failed.”

Eventually he was able to get a text message through.

And since, his foundation has switched gears from putting on a festival in Kathmandu in October to putting one on in Katonah in May.

“Everyone in every field here is switching gears and using their skill set or area of expertise to help in some way,” Linden said.

Experience

Rosado, who taught Linden at the Manhattan School of Music Precollege 15 years ago and will go over to Nepal with Boyd and Metcalf for the festival in October, said she’s experienced putting on a fundraising concert for a cause and recognizes the importance of having it sooner rather than later.

“It’s a very similar situation to when the earthquake hit Haiti five years ago,” she recalled. “I played in a concert in New Jersey and that happened fairly fast — lots of musicians were coming out to help the cause. …

“You have to do it quickly, because people forget and lose attention to the tragedy,” she said. “You have to act fast while it’s still fresh in their minds.”

Beautiful country

Boyd, who’s stayed in touch with his former Manhattan School of Music classmate, will also perform solo Saturday.

The Australian native said he can’t wait to return to Nepal in the fall.

“I went about three years ago, in August 2012,” he said. “It’s a beautiful and serene country and it’s just so sad to hear about the terrible, terrible events that happened there.

“Having visited it, I visualized the places I had been,” he said. “I just kept reading the news about the terrible suffering and I knew I had to do something.”

His immediate reaction was to check in on his friend, who he had emailed just days before the earthquake to talk about flights for the festivals.

“Once everything seemed fine with him, I began to wonder what I could do to bring help where it’s needed most,” Boyd said.

“I’m happy Dan could get this up and running in time,” he said. “Hopefully we can provide some relief and help people out.”

Power of sound

Music can do some incredibly moving things, Boyd said, and this Saturday’s performance will be no different.

“Music can connect communities throughout the world that didn’t know they had anything in common,” he said. “That’s why I’ll be playing pieces from all over the world at the concert — a few Scottish tunes, some from Australia and even another from Hawaii.”

Rosado couldn’t agree more.

“Music is the reason people come together,” she said. “It can have impacts on whole communities and on entire countries.

“It can be useful to heal the people of Nepal,” she added. “And get people to come together for a bigger cause — to listen and to donate, to see that any contribution will have a big impact.”

For more information

Entrance to the concert is free. The organizers are asking attendees to make a direct contribution to Shikshya Foundation Nepal.

Online donations to the Nepal Earthquake Relief Fund may be made at shikshyafoundationnepal.org.

“I like the way Shikshya is operating by supporting local organizations to provide much-needed immediate relief, and then focusing resources on longer-term sustainable rebuilding in rural areas, all without any overhead costs,” Linden said.

To find out more about the foundation and the upcoming festival in October, go to gharanamusicfoundation.org.

For fund-raiser information and updates, people may visit Gharana Music Foundation on Facebook, follow @GharanaMusicFdn on Twitter or email [email protected]
</text>