<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3069344/Nepal-earthquake-survivor-trapped-cave-five-days-reveals-helicopter-pilots-refused-save-didn-t-private-insurance.html
</url>

<date>
20150507
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake survivor refused rescue because she had no health insurance
</headline>

<text>
Five days after quake, Miss Hoffman was rescued by U.S. special

Della Hoffman, 31, was on first day of trek in Langtang valley, Nepal, with boyfriend Eric Jean, 22, when 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck

A survivor of the Nepal earthquake stranded for five days after the disaster has told how multiple helicopter pilots refused to save her - because she hadn't paid for private travel insurance.

Della Hoffman, 31, from Colorado, in the western United States, told how she was trekking in the Langtang valley with boyfriend Eric Jean, 32, when the disaster hit, causing an avalanche of rocks.

The boulders trapped the pair, and around 80 others, forcing them to live in a cave for five days until U.S. special forces arrived to carry them to safety.

Miss Hoffman has now revealed that five helicopters reached the group before that, but because they had been chartered by private insurance companies, the pilots refused to save anyone who hadn't taken out a policy.

Miss Hoffman said that she and her partner did have travel insurance, but not a specialist kind of medical cover which allowed them to call for a helicopter.

She told MailOnline: 'I was going travelling with my boyfriend and we were near the end of a year-long journey round the world and we were pretty excited to come to Nepal and trek here.

'We spent three or four days in Kathmandu before heading to the Langtang valley.

'It was our first day there and we set off on the trial that morning. Four hours later the quake hit.'

She said she was sitting in a village low down in the Langtang valley when the quake hit, having just ordered tea from a local cafe.

When the 7.9 magnitude tremor began , she described how boulders fell from both sides, crushing the nearby houses, sending her into a blind panic.

After the main earthquake had passed, which she said felt like 'an eternity', her and her boyfriend followed nearby villagers to a cave further up the hillside where they took shelter.

Miss Hoffman said the tremor triggered an avalanche of rocks from the steep valley walls, flattening the nearby villages and covering their route out (pictured)

In the aftermath of the quake (pictured), Miss Hoffman said she and other tourists followed Nepalese villagers up some nearby cliffs to a cave where they sheltered from the aftershocks

She said the aftershocks continued throughout the first day, meaning boulders were constantly falling, and her group had to hug close to the rocks to avoid being hit.

She added: 'One of the trail guides got hit in the head but he was OK. However one of the villagers got struck by a rock and died.

'A little while after we made it to the cave another tourist who was further down the trail joined us and he had a broken arm.'

In total around 80 people made it to the cave, including 22 foreign tourists, and used tarpaulins to set up a makeshift camp.

The group managed to build a filtration device to draw drinking water from a nearby stream, and while most of the villages themselves were destroyed, food and other supplies survived.

Miss Hoffman said the tourists struck a deal with the villagers, exchanging what little money they had for provisions that would see them through the coming days.

She added: 'In another stroke of luck, some Israeli tourists had a satellite communication device, so on the second day we were able to message our families that we were OK.'

In total around 80 people made it to a rocky outcrop and cave where they set up camp, sheltered from the boulders which kept falling (pictured: the camp, left, and Miss Hoffman, right)

Miss Hoffman said the tourists traded money and tarpaulin sheets for food with the local villagers, and helped to set up a filter to get water from a nearby river

Fortunately, a group of Israeli tourists had a satellite communication device with them, allowing Miss Hoffman to send a message to her family with their location

But despite giving their families their location on the mountainside, it would be another three days before they would eventually be rescued.

In the meantime they had to watch as a constant stream of helicopters passed overhead, going to save people further up the valley.

Miss Hoffman said: 'In a way we knew we were fortunate. We were quite low down so the weather wasn't too cold. It rained a little overnight and on some afternoons, but the tarps to kept us dry.

'Eventually we got ourselves together enough to build some makeshift helipads. We cleared areas of rubble, and used a raised bamboo platform to create a space for pilots to land.'

On the afternoon of her third day in the mountains, word got around the group that a Japanese helicopter would be arriving in the camp to take people to safety.

Like many others, Miss Hoffman had assumed that meant she would be rescued too, but that turned out not to be the case.

She said: 'When the first helicopter landed it was a real high, we were thrilled that someone had come and we were going to get out.

After three days surviving on what they could scavenge, the group heard that a helicopter would be landing that afternoon, so they cleared an area to serve as a makeshift helipad

But once the helicopter arrived, Miss Hoffman said only a small group of Japanese tourists were allowed on board as they had private insurance with the company which chartered the craft (pictured, the helipad)

'The pilots didn't want to land for long because it was dangerous so there wasn't a lot of time to take in what was happening, but we learned that they had only come for the Japanese tourists.

'There were a lot of tears and frustration during the hours after they left. I couldn't believe they would just leave us there.'

Over the next two days, another four helicopters landed, this time taking groups of Israeli travelers away. It was then that Miss Hoffman learned they were being sent by private companies.

She added: 'Eventually one pilot agreed to take the man with the broken arm, but the rest of us were just left behind.'

It was only after five days that a group of U.S. special forces, who had been in Nepal for high altitude training, were able to get to the group and take Miss Hoffman and her boyfriend away.

Concerned for her fellow tourists, Miss Hoffman insisted that the pilots return for the other survivors, which they agreed to do.

In total, five helicopters visited the camp to rescue those with insurance (pictured), until after five days U.S. special forces arrived and helped the remaining survivors out of the valley

By that evening, everyone from her group who wanted to get out of the valley was safe.

She added: 'We felt really lucky in a lot of ways. We were a lot more fortunate than a lot of people.

'Being back in Kathmandu and seeing the extent of the destruction we knew our trouble was over and we get to go home, but the native people do not.'

Miss Hoffman, who flew back to the U.S. on Monday, said the earthquake has cut the last leg of her world trip short, as she now just wants to be back home with her family.

But she said: 'I think I will have to come back to Nepal because tourism is a huge thing here to support the local people.

'I would still like to see the top of that track in Langtang some day, if I can make it.'

At least 7,500 people died in one of the worst natural disasters to hit Nepal in living memory, decimating large parts of the country, including the capital Kathmandu.
</text>