<url>
http://www.syracuse.com/entertainment/index.ssf/2015/05/nepal_earthquake_relief_continues_fowler_students_raise_500_for_red_cross_photos.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Fowler High School students raise $500 for Nepal earthquake relief (photos/video)
</headline>

<text>
I was scared and I had no idea what was happening.

SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- This week, Syracuse City School District students stepped up with multiple efforts to raise relief money and awareness for the people of Nepal, who endured a devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25.

In the city school district, 446 students identify as Nepali or Bhutanese-Nepali. Many were born and raised in Nepali refugee camps and consider Nepal their home. Most have only moved to the U.S. in the last five years.

On Friday, May 1, dozens of these students wore traditional Nepali clothing at Fowler High School. The girls wore colorful cotton dresses, called kurthas [kurtis], while some male students wore traditional hats called Dhaka topi, or Nepali topi.

At lunchtime, the students gathered in the library to sing the Nepali national anthem and talk about the relief efforts so far.

Related: Donate to Nepal earthquake relief in Syracuse

Fowler led the district's efforts this week to raise money for the American Red Cross. Fowler raised $500 by selling $1 "Fowler for Nepal" bracelets to fellow students and faculty. They just ordered 600 more bracelets reading "Syracuse for Nepal" to continue the fundraising in May.

The students are grateful for the donations, but it's bittersweet.

Despite encouragement from their teachers and friends, many Nepali students remain deeply troubled by the news.

Fowler Nepali student Sabitra Adhikari can't sleep at night.

"Whenever I go to bed, I think about the people sitting outside," said Adhikari, 17. "How are they managing? We have houses and beds here and they have nothing there. It's makes you cry."

Adhikari's uncles, aunts and cousins live in Kathmandu, the capital city of Nepal and hardest hit region.

"Their houses are all destroyed," she said. "They are living outside and do not have anything to eat. My whole family is sad."

Adhikari's relatives in Nepal keep in touch via Skype. They say they're OK, but her uncle's leg was caught under some wreckage. It's a deep injury and could disable him, but at least he's getting treatment, she said.

Outside the capital, broken roads make it difficult and time-consuming to bring emergency assistance to the less populated, rural villages.

'How can they live there now?'

Fowler Nepali student Daya Timsina was at her cousin's house in Syracuse when the earthquake hit. A relative called from Nepal and her cousin started screaming, "Nepal is destroyed, Kathmandu is finished."

"I was scared and I had no idea what was happening," said Timsina, 19. "I had no idea what to do."

While her cousin stayed on the phone, Timsina messaged her relatives in Nepal to ask if they were safe. They were, but couldn't reply until hours later.

Timsina grew up in Jhapa where refugee camps regularly flooded or caught fire. The quake only exacerbated the plight of Nepal's poor, hungry and sick, she said.

"How can they live there now?" she said. "I know what it will be. People will die. I can't believe it. I have no words to describe it. It's so hard."

Monday morning, Timsina and Adhikari met up in the Fowler hallways and decided they needed to do something. They gathered their friends and sought out ESL teachers Dawn Kivlehan and Chelsey MacDougall to help them order bracelets to sell.

Students of all races, not just Nepali, helped sell the bracelets, but for every friend who donated, another said they'd never even heard of Nepal.

"One American friend said, 'Where is that?' and I felt bad," Adhikari said. "I was in social studies class so I just took a globe and showed her. She said, 'Oh, that's so small.'"

'Our heart is in Nepal'

Timsina and Adhikari both grew up in the refugee camps in Nepal. They lived in small houses made of bamboo and grass.

"We didn't have electricity or anything," Timsina said. "We had to cook food in the fire and use burn lamps."

"But we had good education and learned English for free," Adhikari added.

Although their families are ethnically Bhutanese, and their parents may consider Bhutan home, the students feel a stronger tie to Nepal.

"We are not part of Bhutan," Timsina said. "We weren't born there. We don't have citizenship there. Our heart is in Nepal. We love Nepal."

It's a complicated history, but Bhutanese Community of Syracuse president Jai Subedi likens it to African-American history in the U.S. The Bhutanese brought Nepali people into their country for labor hundreds of years ago. Slavery intertwined the histories and cultures of Bhutan and Nepal for centuries.

Many Nepali families fled to Nepali refugee camps in 1990, alleging ethnic and religious repression. With help from local refugee agencies, thousands of Nepali people now live in Syracuse.

Syracuse City School District Nepal Relief

Anyone can drop off cash/check donations at any SCSD main office this week, which will go to the Nepal Red Cross. Addresses are listed below.

Corcoran High School

919 Glenwood Ave.

Each class is competing to collect the most money for a "Pennies for Nepal" fund drive. Nepali students made posters and set up tables to collect money during lunch periods.

Dr. King Magnet Elementary School

416 E. Raynor Ave.

The Dr. King "Nickels for Nepal" drive collects change from students and staff this week to purchase phone cards for the Nepali families at King so they may contact family living in the region.

George Fowler High School

227 Magnolia St., Syracuse.

The Nepali flag flies at half mast below the American flag. Students sold $500 worth of "Fowler for Nepal" bracelets and wore traditional clothing on Friday, May 1.



Huntington Pre-K-8 School

400 Sunnycrest Rd., Syracuse.

Huntington will take $1 student donations all next week in exchange for the chance to wear a hat on Friday, May 8.

Henninger High School

600 Robinson St., Syracuse.

The Henninger principal made an announcement about Nepal followed by a moment of silence. Students, both Nepali and otherwise, sang the Nepali national anthem, created posters and wore ribbons.

Institute Of Technology at Syracuse Central

258 E. Adams St.

Institute of Technology students will host a bottle and can drive on Saturday, May 23 from 9 a.m. - 2 p.m. to raise money for the relief efforts.

LeMoyne School

1528 LeMoyne Ave., Syracuse.

LeMoyne raffled off a free lunch from a local restaurant to teachers, with proceeds going to the Red Cross. Students could wear hats on Friday if they made a donation.

Nottingham High School

3100 E. Genesee St.

Students sang the National Anthem, raised funds at lunch and posted flyers. They're also planning a hat day in exchange for donations.

Contact Katrina Tulloch anytime: Email | Twitter | Google+
</text>