<url>
http://www.furnituretoday.com/blogpost/13698-rug-producers-reaching-out-help-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Rug producers reaching out to help in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The images from Nepal are heartbreaking.

On April 25, an earthquake registering 7.8 on the Richter scale shook Nepal, with catastrophe left in its wake. More than 5,000 people have been confirmed killed in the quake and its aftershocks while thousands remain missing. Homes, businesses and timeless landmarks have been reduced to rubble.

As the country begins to rebuild, the worldwide rug community is reaching out to help as it can. Nepal is a major source of area rugs and many importers and producers have a presence in the nation.

Goodweave, which is dedicated to eradicating child labor in the Asian rug trade, owns the Hamro Ghar building, which serves as a center for rescued rug kids. The building received damage during the quake, but no residents or staff sustained injuries. Executive Director Nina Smith said efforts are underway to track down remaining team members and to assess how carpet weaving families have been affected.

To that end, and to help in the recovery efforts, Smith said Goodweave now has an emergency fund set up for assistance as well as future programs to reduce vulnerability to such disasters.

“We do know that many will require immediate relief — in the form of food, water, blankets, and other household necessities,” Smith said. “We’ll also have to support infrastructure repair and improvements at Hamro Ghar, our other schools, as well as to help the carpet weaving businesses and workers rebuild their factories and homes and get on their feet as soon as possible.”

Dallas-based producer Feizy Rugs has given $15,000 to The Global Fund for Children and pledged to provide a portion of sales through May 15 to help the organization bring relief to Nepalese children and their families.

“As rug manufacturers, we have worked for decades with the people of Nepal,” said John Feizy, CEO. “Helping the children of the world to have a better life has always been a focus at Feizy and we recognize that with a disaster like this, those children need our support now more than ever.”

The Global Fund for Children reports it is receiving news of shelter concerns from their grassroots partners in the country. An orphanage served by GFC partner Partnership for Sustainable Development Nepal has sustained structural damage, making it unsafe for the children to go inside. According to Bishnu Bhatta, Partnership for Sustainable Development Nepal’s director, the children of the orphanage have been staying out in the open for the past three days. His organization’s office has also been damaged, and he has been staying outside as well.

Nourison will make an immediate $10,000 donation and plans additional proceeds from its best-selling Nepal Collection, which was inspired by the artistry and culture of the country.

“We felt that we needed to help Nepal during this tragedy,” said Alex Peykar, principal of Nourison. “Our industry has always had close ties with the people and region of Nepal. Our goal is to raise $25,000 during the month of May and we hope that these funds can help with the relief efforts.”

Nourison will donate to the ORIA Charitable Fund that has been supporting the needs of children and their families in carpet weaving regions for more than a decade.

Additionally, Capel Rugs announced that it will donate to the ORIA Charitable Fund's relief efforts. The funds being collected by ORIA will provide assistance to a variety of respected organizations that are active in the area, including AmeriCares, Care & Fair Nepal, Nepal Burn & Cleft Hospital and STEP Label.

While it doesn’t employ weavers in Nepal, Surya has a number of employees who hail from the land of Mount Everest and is assisting through a $20,000 donation to the American Red Cross.

“Our hearts go out to the people of Nepal as they work to rebuild their communities after this devastating event,” said Satya Tiwari, Surya president. “We can only imagine the challenges and uncertainty that lie ahead and wanted to reach out in some small way to help those affected begin the road to recovery. We hope that our customers and vendor partners will also consider donating or helping in any way that they can.”

The American Red Cross has committed $1 million to help provide emergency humanitarian assistance in Nepal and is mobilizing disaster specialists as part of a larger global Red Cross relief response being led by the Nepal Red Cross. In addition to providing recovery planning and telecommunications support, the American Red Cross is lending remote mapping and information management support to help reconnect separated families. Supplies, including non-food items such as tarps, buckets, kitchen sets and blankets are also being sent to Nepal.

KAS Rugs pledged $20,000 to assist in the aftermath of the April 25 earthquake in Nepal.

“What has happened is heart breaking” said Rao Yarlagadda, KAS president. “There are so many things that are needed. Medical help, housing, food, water, etc. So many children have been affected. We want to do our part to help so many in need.”

Donations made by company employees will be added on top of KAS’ donation and sent at one time.

Relief efforts in the home furnishings industry aren’t limited to rug producers. Retailer Hudson’s Bay Company is donating C$50,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to support relief efforts.

The department store retailer is making the donation through its HBC Foundation, which is matching donations made by the public up to C$50,000. The matching program is being done in cooperation with the Canadian Red Cross to encourage more widespread support.

“Our thoughts are with the people of Nepal and all those affected by this natural disaster,” said Jerry Storch, CEO of Hudson’s Bay. “HBC maintains a commitment to supporting humanitarian crises around the world, and we remain an ongoing supporter of the Red Cross, who provide urgent aid and assistance to support the people impacted by these tragic events.”

Customers of Hudson’s Bay and sister retailer Home Outfitters can also offer support by donating their HBC Rewards Points online at www.hbcrewards.com . Donations can also be made to the Canadian Red Cross at www.redcross.ca/ or calling (800) 418-1111.
</text>