<url>
http://www.cbc.ca/news/world/nepal-earthquake-number-of-missing-canadians-a-mystery-1.3057062
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Number of missing Canadians a mystery
</headline>

<text>
The number of missing people after Nepal's deadly earthquake is likely in the thousands, with the tally for Canadians who have yet to make contact with home still unknown as search efforts continue.



Up to 1,000 Europeans are among the missing, a European Union official said Friday.

The Canadian government has no such estimates. The Foreign Affairs Department said again in an email Friday that it was too soon to determine the precise number of missing Canadians as search efforts are still underway.

The department said officials were providing consular assistance to about 85 Canadians, including some who are still in remote areas.

"Despite challenges due to the terrain and weather, we will continue to make every effort to provide assistance to those who may be stranded."

To date, 67 Canadians have been flown out of Nepal on air lifts, and a Foreign Affairs spokesman said in an email the department was aware of "approximately 250 Canadians who have been able to depart on commercial flights."

A further 450 Canadians have been in touch with the department to confirm they aren't in need of consular services.

Bruce and Kathy Macmillan are from St. Albert, Alta., and haven't been heard from since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit Nepal, near where they were hiking. (Facebook )

The confirmed death toll from last Saturday's disaster has risen to 6,260, with 14,357 injured, according to the Nepalese government.

There is no number for the missing, but bodies are still being pulled from the debris of ruined buildings, while rescue workers have not been able to reach some remote areas.

The number of people missing from France, Italy and Spain is 221, according to checks made by Reuters with their governments.

Among the Canadians missing are Bruce and Kathy Macmillan, last known to be hiking near the quake's epicentre.

The St. Albert, Alta., couple had been hiking in Langtang National Park, on a trail the two traversed 35 years ago, shortly after they were married.

The Macmillans are experienced hikers who on this trip elected to not have a guide or a tent, and had planned to stay in teahouses during their trek. They had been travelling in Asia for six months.

They had plans to hike with their two adult sons in Nepal, and after arriving in Kathmandu early, decided at the last minute to hike into Langtang National Park.

One son, Fraser Macmillan, flew out of Kathmandu on Wednesday, one of 96 Canadians airlifted out of the country by a C-17 transport plane. The other son stayed in New Delhi.

The family has set up a Facebook page to aid in the search.

On mobile? Follow the live blog here
</text>