<url>
http://patch.com/pennsylvania/radnor/radnor-firm-ramps-earthquake-relief-efforts-0
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Radnor Firm Ramps Up Earthquake Relief Efforts
</headline>

<text>
The Attorney General’s Office this week warned Pennsylvanians about donating money to help the victims of the earthquake in Nepal. One outlet based in Radnor that has built a strong and trustworthy reputation for its philanthropy would be a good candidate to send charitable contributions.

Geneva Global, a philanthropic consulting firm in Wayne, has launched the Nepal Recovery Fund in partnership with Capital for Good USA, a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization. The fund provides donors with a way to get money quickly to the communities affected by the massive earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday, April 25.

Of the 27.8 million people living in Nepal, about 83 percent reside outside of urban areas. The earthquake has affected 30 of the 75 districts of Nepal, with reports stating up to 90 percent of homes have been destroyed in some of the worst affected rural villages.

Access to these villages has been damaged or blocked and communication is sporadic, making it even more difficult for outside aid agencies to get help to those who need it most.

According to a statement from the firm, the Nepal Recovery Fund differs from other relief funds by focusing on working through indigenous, community-based organizations. The fund will support local organizations in the most adversely affected regions, providing immediate relief and later rehabilitation and recovery work.

“Our staff located in Nepal, along with our long-standing implementing partners, know the local players and by focusing on these grassroots organizations, we can reach harder-to-access areas and empower local communities to lead their own recovery process,” said Doug Balfour, CEO of Geneva Global.

Geneva Global has been managing multi-million dollar development programs in Nepal since 2011, including an extensive program in Kathmandu.

The company also has wide-ranging experience in managing pooled philanthropic funds and coordinating with local organizations to provide relief efforts since 2004, including work in Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Thailand, Myanmar, the Philippines, Haiti, and most recently with the Ebola Crisis Fund.

To donate to Geneva Global’s Nepal Recovery Fund access www.nepalrecfund.org or send checks to Capital for Good ( note “Nepal Recovery Fund” on memo line), 115 Bloomingdale Ave., Wayne, PA 19087.
</text>