<url>
http://www.healthaim.com/baby-found-unharmed-buried-rubble-nepals-earthquake/22545
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Baby Found Unharmed Buried in Rubble Of Nepal’s Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
The 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal last April 25 has killed more than 5,000 people and has injured thousand more, but one story of hope has erupted hope amidst the rubble as a baby was found unharmed buried under their collapsed house.

Sonit Awal was buried for 22-hours and was thought dead, he is just four months old.

His father, Shyam Awal, was at home in Muldhoka, Bkatapur, with Sonit when the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal and its neighboring countries. Bkatapur is located east of the capital Kathmandu.

Sonit was buried under the rubble for approximately 22 hours and Shyam was desperately searching for his baby boy. He contacted the Nepalese Army to aid him in his search, both parties scrambled through the dirt until midnight; the Nepalese Army gave up and left. Shyam, after which, heard faint cries from below.

The soldiers returned the next day, April 26, and by around 10 a.m., they raised Sonit from the rocks, beams and dust. Sonit was wearing a hooded top and shawl which protected his head and body during the cold nights being buried under the debris. He was taken to Bhaktapus Hospital and was found to have no injuries.

Sonit’s story is not the only one that shows hope in the devastation that Nepal is going through. An elderly woman was found under the rubble on April 28, approximately 3 days after the earthquake. Tanka Maya Sitoula, a 40-year-old mother of four, was sitting at her home when the earthquake struck. She was rescued 36 hours of being trapped in a room. She was rescued by a team of Indians, apparently unharmed for a beam was protecting her, preventing the debris from crushing her down.

“I heard people making noise outside, so I thought I would be rescued,” said Sitoula. “I was just lying down. There was no room to move here and there.”

A man was also rescued after being trapped for 82 hours. Rishi Kanal was found under the debris by the French search and rescue team using a specialized gear that detects life, April 28. But it took 10 more hours to dig him out.

Jon Keisi was trapped in the wreckage of a seven-story building for more than 60 hours. The rescuers had to build a tunnel to get Keisi out. As he was placed in an orange stretcher, he cried out in pain as he is injured and dehydrated. Rescuers are still hopeful he will survive.

Photo: Two Circles

For comments and suggestions, leave a message in the comments section below. Like and Follow our Facebook page for more stories and to stay up-to-date with the latest happenings.
</text>