<url>
http://www.indiatimes.com/news/world/nepalquake-rescue-teams-pull-out-two-people-alive-after-127-hours-raises-hope-for-many-more-survivors-232314.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
#NepalQuake: Rescue Teams Pull Out Two People Alive After 127 Hours, Raises Hope For Many More Survivors!
</headline>

<text>
Fifteen-year-old Pemba Tamang is no Aron Ralston, played by James Franco in Danny Boyle's uplifting 2010 film '127 Hours', but his struggle for survival is no less heroic. On Thursday, at 11.30 am, Tamang was pulled out alive from the rubble of a hotel in Nuwakoth in Kathmandu - five days after the quake hit Nepal. Tamang survived exactly 120 hours, without any food or water, under seven floors in a space just enough to fit a couple of men.

Nursing his injuries, which doctors said were so minor that one could say he was without a scratch, at a field hospital set up by the Israeli military, Tamang narrated how two bottles of ghee and intermittent rain kept him alive. Tamang was having lunch near the hotel's kitchen when the quake struck. As the building collapsed, he was trapped between two walls. And, as if by divine providence, two small bottles of ghee, as unscathed as himself, rolled over to him.

AFP

"The first day, I just kept trying to escape the rubble. I moved some stones but beyond a point couldn't shove them. I even tried moving a bike that had got sandwiched. That didn't help either. By evening, with no help in sight, I began to lose hope," Tamang said. As hunger pangs struck, he drank from the bottles of ghee. "As there was rain and my clothes were often wet, I wrung them to drink water when thirsty," he recounted. But with every passing day, Tamang was getting convinced that he was going to die. "Whenever I would sense some movement during the day or some light during the night, I would feel may be they are rescue teams. But this hope would soon fade away," Tamang said.

Reuters

It was not to be so on Thursday. A US team engaged in rescue work with the Nepal Army found that there was someone alive under the rubble. It cut piles of concrete and pulled out Tamang alive. "When I heard the whirr of the cranes, I began to believe that I may be saved," Tamang said.

Eran Tal-Or, the Israeli doctor who treated Tamang after his rescue, said he had never seen a case like this even though he had been part of rescue work in worse disasters such as the Haiti earthquake. "The boy is absolutely fit. He is just tired. There is practically no injury on his body. He communicated very well to us after the rescue," he said.

Reuters

Ohad Horsands, an official in the Israeli embassy, said such stories lifted the spirit of the entire rescue operation. "We set a field hospital with a capacity to treat 200 patients here in the first 96 hours of the quake. As many as 260 people are engaged in treating the injured with 120 of them being medical staff. We have treated 140 patients but this one has been most uplifting," Horsands said, adding that the field hospital was set up with "great help" from India. "Ambassador Daniel Carmon was in constant touch with NSA Ajit Doval, who extended his full cooperation to make this happen," Horsands said.

Elsewhere, a woman was pulled from a collapsed block where she had been trapped alongside three bodies. Earthquake survivor Krishna Kumari Khadka, 24, was rescued by the French, Israeli and Norwegian rescue teams six days after Saturday's earthquake in Kathmandu.

Reuters

Don't Miss 13.7 K SHARES 16.8 K SHARES 10.9 K SHARES 7 K SHARES 16.5 K SHARES 13.2 K SHARES 8.6 K SHARES 8.2 K SHARES 8.7 K SHARES

Reuters

(originally published in The Times of India)
</text>