<url>
http://www.greatfallstribune.com/story/news/local/2015/05/01/montana-couple-nepal-urges-donations-help-others/26695389/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Montana couple in Nepal urges donations to help others
</headline>

<text>
Family members look at a damaged buildings at Vhaktapur in Nepal on Monday, April 27. Sarah Sentz of Choteau, her boyfriend Ryan Edwards and friend Jennifer Thompson survived a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal, where the three had been part of a trek. (Photo: ABIR ABDULLAH/EPA) Story Highlights Want to help?100friends.org. Specify Singla and it will go to that area for earthquake relief.

Crowdrise.com and go to crookedtrails.

Sarah Sentz has a cardinal rule when it comes to international travel: Never tell anybody the truth until you're back home.

Sentz had to break that rule early April 25, when she called her mom and dad in Choteau to tell them she, her boyfriend Ryan Edwards, and friend Jennifer Thompson survived a devastating 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal, where the three had been part of a trek.

In the days since that temblor struck, Sentz and Edwards have made it to Kathmandu, where they have been staying in a hotel and plan to fly out of the country Saturday.

Edwards, who grew up in Helena, will return to Montana where he is about to start a job with the National Park Service in Yellowstone. He is a ranger and is trained as a paramedic. Sentz, a registered nurse who at one time worked for Benefis Health System, is going to Germany for two weeks to visit a friend.

Thompson, they said, has gone to the Nepal village where she is with the family that she stayed with several years earlier when she visited the country.

(Photo: Courtesy photo)

Sentz and Edwards called the Great Falls Tribune late Thursday to not shed light on themselves, but to encourage others to make donations to the people of Nepal recovering from this quake that has killed 6,130 people and injured nearly 14,000. And the toll is climbing.

Sentz, 29, looks at her journal when recounting the day the quake struck.

She, Edwards and Thompson were part of a trek that is part of the Manaslu circuit, named for the world's eighth-highest mountain that is part of the Nepalese Himalayans. The group had been divided in two and Thompson was with the other party.

They were on a steep trail near the village of Tao, had stopped to take a picture, when rocks started falling.

Edwards told her to run, Sentz said. Everything was shaking and it was difficult to remain standing. They huddled underneath a rock overhang.

(Photo: Courtesy photo)

"It sounded like gunshots going off and huge boulders the size of a dining room table were coming over our heads and into the river below us, Sentz said. "Part of me was thinking this will be over soon and the other part was thinking the entire mountain might collapse on us.

"It was pretty frightening, but I had no idea what scale it was."

They were reunited with Thompson, who was with the other group, saying they were worried.

"That was the worse, that was really awful," Sentz said. "We were so relieved when saw them with our binoculars across the path."

The next day they made it to a road and headed for Kathmandu.

Meanwhile, members of the trekking staff understandably wanted to return to their families. Sentz said newspaper reports said 350,000 people were trying to flee Kathmandu while she was in one of the few vehicles trying to get into the city.

"The traffic was madness," she said. "It was strange, apocalyptic."

Their trek organizer had arranged hotel accommodations for the group before the trek began, which is in the general area of the American embassy.

Edwards, 28, said they shied away from the embassy, hearing that it was "chaos" and have been comfortable at their hotel.

Nepal had a certain allure for Sentz. Her parents, Linda and Gene, met in Nepal in the '80s and she had grown up looking at images of Nepal and the Himalayas. She now describes the situation as "surreal."

While she and Edwards have access to food and water at their hotel, there are a lot of people who don't.

"If you have the means and money, you can access food and water," Sentz said, adding for many people in Nepal, it's hard to get those resources. She said she has heard reports of rioting, but has not witnessed it herself.

"We have gone out and walked around," she said, but added they have mostly stayed in the area near their hotel.

With their first-aid training, Sentz said she and Edwards would "love" to be helping in rescue efforts.

"But it's much different in reality," she said, adding there are a "ton" of aid workers here and Nepali rescue professionals.

She said it's a massive operation well-trained in disasters.

"We've learned it's better for us to stay out of the way," she said.

Edwards agreed.

(Photo: Courtesy photo)

"It's frustrating, but self-deploying in these things can cause chaos," he said, adding that good intentions are great, but if the plans are not logistical you can "add to the problem."

"It's hard internally to swallow that pill, having been on the other side … but sometimes you have to stand back and lend a hand if called to it," Edward said.

And that is where Sune comes in.

Sune Gurung was a guide on their trek and they said his village of Singla was "completely destroyed" in the earthquake.

"We know he made it there safely," Sentz said, adding that Crystal Mountain Trek, their operator, has arranged for supplies to be delivered there.

Sentz and Edwards said people wanting to help can make donations. Edwards said Kathmandu has many resources, but he wants to get some relief to the more remote areas.

They have left some of the items from their trek, such as gloves and socks, to be sent there.

Sentz said she has been inspired by the ordeal to look more into organizations such as Doctors Without Borders.

"This is certainly inspiring ...," she said.

Regardless, Sentz says she will be looking for work when she returns to Montana. And she may move with Edwards to Yellowstone, an area atop a volcano and known for seismic activity.

"At least we'll be in the center of it," she said.

Want to help?

Sentz and Edwards recommend making donations through these websites:

•100friends.org. Specify Singla and it will go to that area for earthquake relief.

•Crowdrise.com and go to crookedtrails.

Thompson loves the outdoors

Jennifer Thompson, who was with Sarah Sentz and Ryan Edwards when the earthquake hit, has been described by a friend as "determined."

"She's very centered and spends a lot of time in nature and hiking the Continental Divide over a period of years," Marilyn Schneider, a message therapist, told the Tribune this week. "She's very respectful of nature's ways."

She says Thompson loves the outdoors and pays attention. She reads weather and what's going on in nature's agenda.

Schneider said this was a return trip for Thompson as she had been to the country several years ago. She was confident her friend would return home.

"I was generally concerned about her, but her determination and smarts about the outdoors will lead her to make very smart decisions."

Read or Share this story: http://gftrib.com/1GLGxrC
</text>