<url>
http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/WO1505/S00010/article-and-photos-by-nepalese-former-exchange-student.htm
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Article and Photos by Nepalese former exchange student
</headline>

<text>
Article and Photos by Nepalese former exchange student

Article and Photos by Nepalese former exchange student

This is not the first time in the history of Earth that the lives of human being are at stake! Nor any peculiar phenomenon that has occurred so far! It is Earthquake, of the magnitude 7.6 Richter scale (according to the Nepal Government), that was felt all over Nepal in the midday of 25th April, 2015, Saturday and afterwards, hundreds of aftershocks! Since the time, every news channels and networks are constantly reporting on the increment of death tolls, casualties, destructions and losses. There seem no limit to these misfortunes that have occurred. Primarily, the casualties were reported within Kathmandu valley, and from the third day onwards, the situation of other regions of the nation started to flood in. It is so feared that the number of lives lost by Nepalese will once again reach a sky-high scale, exceeding the number of deaths during the Maoist Insurgency in Nepal.

Inside the Kathmandu valley, the lives are slowly getting stable. The electricity has been resumed in some places and the only international airport of entire country, Tribhuvan International Airport is functioning at its peak. And the support and rescue teams have arrived from all over the world! All the security and rescue mechanism have been deployed. Despite all these efforts, the help and assistance for the people is still not enough! Not any of the rescue team or mechanism has been able to reach the remote areas along the periphery of Kathmandu Valley, let alone the places in the middle of massive and majestic hills and mountains of Nepal. In some places, the situation seems so hopeless that it is so felt that the people are waiting to die, rather than waiting to be rescued! The bodies submerged under the debris of their own homes are not yet collected. There is a log of reported deaths only, but no updates on missing people so far! The people are in hurry to go back to their homes in villages, and mainly leave Kathmandu Valley in fear that any disease may outbreak or scarcity of basic needs (food, shelter, security, etc) may occur.

The people themselves are at a state of rage. Everybody are in need of relief materials: tents for homeless, warm clothes for cold, food for hungry, medicine for sick and injured and most of all, a feeling of safety and care for all! The relief materials being delivered are very less in comparison to the need which has irritated and agitated the people in need!

Many monuments, relics and houses have been completely destroyed. Most of the olden houses and mud houses are demolished or in the condition to be abandoned, resulting into scarcity of shelter. Stock of food is running out, sources of water are polluted, medicines and manpower at hospitals are limited, in most disaster struck areas, helicopters are the only means of transportation, and rescue operations are taking longer time due to limited resources and the drizzles of rain toughens the lives of all!

Everyone are working at their level best to help the needy in Nepal, in any way they could at any level! We, members of Rotaract Club of Yala have sent our first relief materials to Kunchowk, a village of Sindhupalchowk District, around 20 KM from the district headquarter, Chautara. Thanks to Rtr. Lawa Krishna Shrestha and Sanju Maya Tamang! And other supports are being extended to the needy within Kathmandu and Lalitpur, so far! We have recently received some relief materials for earthquake victims, from our loyal friends in Thailand, but, facing huge problems with custom regulations to get them out of the airport!

There are many calls for help for the people in need, now since communication have resumed to some extent all over Nepal, the call for help is even more! And the need is increasing in the same ratio. This situation is going to prevail for a time, may be a month, two months or even six months! After the rescue and support work, there are still a huge tasks of rehabilitation of the earthquake victims, renovation of the infrastructures and homes, restoration of the monuments and leaving back the civilization of Nepal, Nepali arts and culture and a better Nepal to the upcoming generation!

Please Help us to Help the People in Need! Find a role where you fit in, contact us and extend your support to the people of Nepal!

By: Nirjan Shakya

ENDS



© Scoop Media


</text>