<url>
http://thechronicleherald.ca/world/1283872-a-baby-saved-a-baby-born-in-quake-ravaged-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
A baby saved, a baby born in quake-ravaged Nepal
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU, Nepal — Nepalese photojournalist Amul Thapa smiled in spite of his hidden pain when he saw the scene he’ll remember always: Rescue workers pulling a four-month-old boy from the wrecked home where he’d been trapped 20 hours after the earthquake.

Sonit Awal’s chubby cheeks were caked in chalky, concrete dust. One tiny fist curled tightly shut, the other seemingly covering his face.

His 9-year-old sister was watching him when the magnitude-7.8 temblor struck at midday Saturday, collapsing many historic buildings in the town of Bhaktapur, just east of Nepal’s capital.

The children’s parents were both away but the girl managed to escape unhurt. When Thapa, who works with the newspaper Kathmandu Today, first heard Sonit’s cries, the baby was trapped under a wooden beam.

That beam “was supporting everything,” the 26-year-old remembers. To move it would have meant to bring even more danger to the trapped child.

Thapa’s own family in his hometown of Bhaktapur had suffered and his home had been destroyed but Thapa said when he heard the baby cry all he could think was “Please God, help him.”

Thapa was walking to the market on Saturday when he first heard of the baby trapped but he decided not to shoot that day.

“The atmosphere was not right.”

But he returned the next morning.

At 10 a.m. on Sunday, Nepalese army soldiers pulled out little Sonit.

“When I saw the baby alive all my sorrow went. Everyone was clapping. It gave me energy and made me smile in spite of lots of pain hidden inside me.”

The photographer said the baby appeared to have suffered only a small cut over his brow.

Many of the ornate buildings in Bhaktapur, a key tourist site, were reduced to rubble after the earthquake.

“Please help Nepalese people and save Nepalese people,” Thapa said, adding that urban areas would recover from the devastation relatively quickly but in the villages close to the epicenter, people lost their home and are asking for help.

And after almost a week of heartbreaking news from earthquake-hit Nepal, on Friday there was a small but beautiful moment of joy.

A baby girl was born Friday to a young Nepalese couple in one of the field hospitals set up by foreign nations to bring emergency aid to the country.

Both the mother and the baby, who hasn’t been named yet, are doing well.

Lata Chand, 19, was heavily pregnant when the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck last Saturday. She and her husband ran out of their house in panic. Their home was undamaged, but the hospital where she was to give birth was forced to close.

On Friday they went instead to a field hospital set up by the Israeli military where the baby was born.

The beaming midwife, Dganit Gery, said she hoped the birth would show all Nepalese women that there is hope for the future.

Lata’s husband Hariender Chand said they were terrified the quake would cause her to miscarry.

“When the quake struck I was thinking ‘will we survive?’ because most of the pregnant women miscarried their babies. I was scared it would happen to us. Now we’re safe, it’s good.”
</text>