<url>
http://blog.seattlepi.com/mommyfiles/2015/04/30/israel-evacuates-surrogate-babies-from-nepal-leaves-mothers-behind/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Israel evacuates surrogate babies from Nepal, leaves mothers behind
</headline>

<text>




























Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli medics carry the babies of a homosexual couple who had three infants born to surrogate mothers in Nepal after they arrived at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 3 of 8 Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less Israeli homosexual men, one of them carrying a baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal, disembark a plane at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following their repatriation from the quake-hit ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 4 of 8 An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the quake-hit Himalayan nation. Israel began repatriating its nationals from Nepal on April 27, 2015, including two groups of babies born to surrogate mothers in Kathmandu whose fathers are homosexual Israelis, officials said. less An Israeli homosexual father carries his baby born to a surrogate mother in Nepal as he is cheered by relatives at Ben Gurion airport near Tel Aviv on April 28, 2015, following his repatriation from the ... more Photo: JACK GUEZ / AFP/Getty Images Image 5 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 6 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israeli travelers with their new born babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 7 of 8 TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at Ben Gurion Airport on April 28, 2015 in Tel Aviv, Israel. A plane carrying 229 Israelis who were stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion International Airport early Tuesday afternoon. Among the passengers were 15 newborns, including three premature babies. less TEL AVIV, ISRAEL - APRIL 28: Israelis from the Israeli rescue organization, Magen David Adom hold babies from surrogate mothers in Nepal after they disembark from an Israeli rescue plane after it landed at ... more Photo: Lior Mizrahi / Getty Images Image 8 of 8 Israel evacuates surrogate babies from Nepal, leaves mothers behind 1 / 8 Back to Gallery

Ever since a devastating earthquake shook Nepal on Saturday, Israeli government and medical planes have been evacuating surrogate-born babies. A total of 26 newborn babies have been airlifted, according to NPR. But while impressive rescues were made to bring the babies to safe ground, many surrogate mothers carrying Israeli babies have been left behind. An estimated 100 pregnant women, both Indian and Nepalese, are waiting to be airlifted.

Israel Interior Minister Gilad Erdan says in light of the disaster he will approve a plan to permit surrogate mothers in Nepal carrying the fetuses of Israeli parents to enter Israel. “We have decided to hold off on all the procedures, even if it causes a problem with the Nepalese or Indian governments, so as to bring over the babies as soon as possible,” he told Israeli news sources.

Because surrogacy in Israel is limited to heterosexual couples, many gay and single parents hire surrogates in Nepal, where the service is 50 percent less than what it would cost in America.

In the past, India was the most popular place for Israelis to find surrogates, but according to Time.com, a new Indian law introduced in 2013 prevents ”gay men and couples who had been married for less than two years from engaging surrogate mothers.” As a result, Nepal has become the number-one surrogacy destination for Israelis. In some cases, Indian women travel to Nepal to birth babies for Israelis and as a result Indian women pregnant with Israeli babies are also trapped in the Nepal quake aftermath.

Because of the disaster and complications around the babies and mothers being stuck in a disaster zone, many are now pushing Israel to change its surrogacy laws.

“There is something absurd involved in the need for a massive earthquake in Nepal to pave the way for such births here,” writes Aeyal Gross for Haaretz.com. ”This is a signal of the need to end the discrimination in Israeli law, meaning that the sexual orientation and personal status of the intended parents should not be factors in surrogate pregnancies.”
</text>