<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Nepal-quake-sends-summer-holiday-plans-for-a-toss/articleshow/47121808.cms
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake sends summer holiday plans for a toss
</headline>

<text>
MUMBAI: Within days of the Nepal earthquake, it has become clear that the biggest victim of the disaster — apart from the hapless citizens and the centuries-old heritage — has been the country's tourism industry. Nepal is popular for it's many temples. Pashupatinath, Dakshinkali, Boudanath and Swayambhunath are some of the most visited pilgrimage sites. This is the reason why people from all over the world travel here, to offer their prayers.However, the earthquake and its aftershocks have left many people from Mumbai wary of travelling to this hilly country. Due to this, almost all travel and tour operators have cancelled trips to Nepal during the current summer holidays.Dhaval Shah, a city-based tour operator says, "We had booked tickets for approximately 40 people for a trip around Kathmandu and Pokhara, out of which five were newly-married couples. However, now with the city in shambles, we have to cancel all the bookings. This has caused enough damage to our business and will take almost two to six months before tourists can start visiting Nepal."Talking about cancelling trips at the last moment, Vrinda Nagpal, a tour consultant says, "We had many tourists flying to Nepal on the day the earthquake happened and the next day as well. Thankfully, much before our clients could board the flight we had to cancel the bookings. However, we suffered huge losses because some of the tickets were booked about three months in advance. Further, we also had to deal with a few annoying clients who wanted a refund on their flight and hotel tickets right away, which was difficult on our part, because our money was stuck with the travel operators in Nepal."Chiranjeevi Bhattarai, a 28-year-old digital advertising professional says, "I was about to travel with my parents to Nepal (my hometown) for a family get-together. We usually schedule our annual trip to the place at this time of the year. We still had another two days left to go, when this disaster took place. Since I had planned the travel almost a month back, there is no way I could get a refund on the flight tickets. That apart, since I had also taken about two week off from work, I will now have to think of another destination where we can go."Housewife and mother-of-two, Dikshita Yadav says, "This is the time when my kids get a long summer vacation and my husband takes leave from work. We had planned a trip to Leh Ladakh and then to Nepal. We were supposed to travel mid-May. However, the tour operators informed us that they are cancelling all the bookings for Nepal, so now our travel plan stands for only Leh and Ladakh."Hemant Aadekar, a travel professional based in the central suburbs says, "We are now recommending our clients to other tourist destinations in South-East Asia. Some countries like Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam, which are other popular travel choices."
</text>