<url>
http://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/charlotte-appealing-for-help-for-nepal-31179257.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Charlotte appealing for help for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Charlotte Toner from Greystones hurried down swaying wooden stairs with frightened children as the first aftershock from the Nepal earthquake hit Darjeeling last Saturday just before midday,

Charlotte Toner from Greystones hurried down swaying wooden stairs with frightened children as the first aftershock from the Nepal earthquake hit Darjeeling last Saturday just before midday,

Charlotte, a past pupil of Loreto in Bray, is interning in India for an NGO called the Edith Wilkins Street Children Foundation as part of her Bachelors degree in University College Cork.

She is putting out an urgent appeal for aid for the region where she has been for a month and a half. Darjeeling is a small mountain community on the border which has felt every after-shock.

When the first one hit, Charlotte and her fellow interns were in the foundation conducting a substance abuse awareness workshop with the children when the quake began. 'It was quite a scary experience as we tried to evacuate all the kids from the shaking building,' she said. 'Some of the younger kids were reduced to tears as they had no idea what was happening.'

The first tremor caused widespread fear among the local people and caused some minor structural damage to buildings, but luckily no-one was seriously injured in the Darjeeling area. The second big aftershock was felt the day after. 'My friend and I were in downtown Darjeeling at the time, which made the whole ordeal even more scary as the electricity suddenly went indicating the next big tremor,' said Charlotte. 'We ran out onto the streets where people were screaming, mothers with small children in their arms, running to any open space where they thought safe.'

On Monday night they experienced another large tremor at about 6.45 p.m., which was felt all over Darjeeling. The epicentre had moved to Mirik, just 30 miles away. 'Some injuries followed as some people tripped and fell running from unstable buildings. The people of Darjeeling are petrified as the epicentre seems to be moving closer and closer to us each day.'

This is not Charlotte's first time experiencing an earthquake, as she was in the 6.7 quake that hit Istanbul in 1999. 'My fear is heightened as I feel great responsibility for the children in our care at the Foundation,' she said. They don't know when the next tremor will come, and the interns are contacting people both in India and Ireland trying to raise funds and planning out emergency packs.

The foundation is sending emergency relief teams to Nepal, where thousands have died or been injured.

'In Darjeeling we are collecting material donations, such as dry food and water from local people to bring to the border areas,' said Charlotte. 'From Ireland, we are requesting emergency funds. The money raised will be used to buy supplies for emergency packs (dry food, clothes, blankets, medical supplies, water, umbrellas, tents etc.) for families and affected people. People are running out of water and food and are in great need of any make shift shelters to survive the cold, rainy conditions that persist.' They are also bracing themselves in the Foundation for an influx of orphaned children from the bordering Nepal, as result of their parents dying or being injured as a result of the earthquake. 'We need much more funds and donations so we can facilitate these children and continue on looking after the 60 residential children that are here with us in the Foundation already,' said Charlotte. To make a donation go to www.edithwilkinsfoundation.org.

Wicklow People
</text>