<url>
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/nepal-earthquake-australian-ballantyne-paige-forder-missing/story-e6frg6so-1227321357593?nk=12543fd4550847286a8d5d1378d17869
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Missing Australian Ballantyne Paige Forder found
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Missing Australian Ballantyne Paige Forder found

A Perth woman who had been working in an orphanage in Kathmandu at the time of the Nepal earthquake and was believed to be one of those still missing, has told friends and family she is safe.

Relatives of Ballantyne Paige Forder, 20, said this morning photographs which showed destruction caused by the wake were unnerving but they were confident she would be found.

Late this afternoon Ms Forder told relatives via social media that she was safe.

“Letting all of my loved ones know I am safe during this massive earthquake,” she said.

“The orphanage, some locals and I have been camping in a field since 12pm yesterday, praying for our safety.

“Please keep myself and the beautiful people of Nepal in your prayers at this time.

“Rest in peace to the many lives already lost.”

Her Tasmanian-based sister Amanda-Sue Markham expressed her relief in a post to Twitter.

“SHE’S SAFE!!! Moved the entire orphanage to a field where they’ve been camping since yesterday! So proud of my little sister,” she said.

My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety. — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 26, 2015

My heart is with all those who continue to wait for news of those they love and aches for those who are already mourning. #NapalEarthquake — Amanda-Sue Markham (@sue_amandasue) April 26, 2015

Ms Markham said Ms Forder was due home soon to celebrate her 21st birthday on May 3.

“She was coming for her 21st birthday so we really would like to celebrate with her,” she told the Nine Network.

“We just need to get her home”.

However worried relatives have inundated social media with pleas for help and information about hundreds of Australians who remain unaccounted for.

Authorities are still trying to contact about 350 of the 549 Australians who were registered as travelling in Nepal. Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop says officials are working under challenging conditions to locate all those in the country.

Twitter and Facebook pages are showing images of Australians in Nepal while many families have reported dozens of loved ones missing on The Red Cross’s Family Links website.

One is 24-year-old Sydney business owner Matthew Graves, who was travelling through Pokhara.

His brother, Mitch Graves, is at home in Sydney waiting for news while their parents are overseas in America.

“It’s a bit of a struggle trying to communicate to everyone. It is a waiting game at the moment,” he told AAP.

The younger brother of Australian actor Hugh Sheridan is also missing.

Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest, I'd appreciate every prayer you have spare x — Hugh Sheridan (@hugh_sheridan) April 25, 2015

“Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest,” Mr Sheridan tweeted.

Deb Williams is still waiting for news about her Brisbane-based son Jai, who was due to be at Mount Everest base camp on Saturday. Mr Williams was trekking with his friend Ben Flanders.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has opened its emergency call unit and updated travel advice for Nepal, warning of disruptions to communication, transport and tourist infrastructure in the country.

Australians concerned for family and friends are asked to try to contact them directly before calling DFAT’s 24-hour consular emergency centre on (02) 6261-3305 or, within Australia, 1300 555 135.

Additional reporting: AAP
</text>