<url>
http://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/certain-media-houses-working-against-modi-govt-amit-shah/74966.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Certain media houses working against Modi govt: Amit Shah
</headline>

<text>
BJP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING

Lalit Mohan

Tribune News Service

Dharamsala, May 1

BJP president Amit Shah today said certain media houses had launched a propaganda against the NDA government over the land ordinance Bill. Efforts were being made to label the BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as pro-corporate and anti-farmer. Directing the attack on the Gandhi family, Amit Shah alleged that the people, whose own family members were involved in land grabbing, were now trying to champion their cause. He said the UPA government was pro-corporate as it allotted coal mines to corporate and their own party members for peanuts. The present NDA government had brought transparency in auctioning of coal mines and sold just 20 mines for more than Rs 2 lakh crore. Similarly, the 2G spectrum that was given for peanuts by the previous UPA government had been sold for over Rs 1 lakh crore by the government. The NDA government had collect the right price of national assets from the corporate and would use that money for the welfare of poor, Amit Shah said. He also alleged that the previous government gave undue benefits worth Rs 12 lakh crore to a few in the corporate sector. Amit Shah, who arrived here this afternoon, addressed the state BJP executive and held meeting with the district presidents and the core group of the BJP. Addressing BJP executive members, he said it was time to take the BJP ideology to every nook and corner of the country. In the next six months, the BJP would launch two programmes to achieve these objectives. Amit Shah said after achieving the objective of making 10 crore members, the BJP would now launch a mass contact programme from May to July in which BJP workers would visit the houses of all new members. They would give published material to the members that would contain information regarding the ideology of the BJP, a brief history of the party and the achievements of the BJP governments at states and Centre. The workers would get a form filled from new members that would contain data regarding their personal information, caste, education qualifications and social status. After this campaign, the BJP would have the biggest data bank of its workers in the entire world. From August to September, it would organise a training programme for 15 lakh selected members, Amit Shah said. He said the last one year from March 2014 to 15 could be termed the golden age for the BJP. It is during this period that the country got its first non-Congress government with full majority. The BJP now had over 1,000 MLAs and government in 13 states and emerged bigger than the Congress. Two generations of party workers had sacrificed their life for it. State president of the BJP Satpal Satti said in the enrolment drive, 28 per cent voters had become members of the party. He also announced that all BJP MLAs had decided to donate one-month salary to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund as help for earthquake victims of Nepal. Amit Shah also released Deep Kamal Sandesh, a magazine of the state BJP and its website.
</text>