<url>
http://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/around-3-lakh-foreign-tourists-stranded-in-quake-hit-nepal/article1-1341281.aspx
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Around 3 lakh foreign tourists stranded in quake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Several countries have released the details on citizens who found themselves in Nepal at the time a strong earthquake hit on Saturday, killing more than 2,200 people.

The 7.9-magnitude quake struck at midday at a busy time of year for the tourism-reliant country's trekking and climbing season, with an estimated 300,000 foreign tourists in the country, several hundred of those on Mount Everest.



Australia

549 Australians registered as travelling in Nepal, 200 confirmed safe. No reports of Australian deaths.

Austria

Around 250 Austrians in Nepal, no reports of any casualties.

Bangladesh

No Bangladeshis in Nepal been reported injured or killed. But four people reported killed inside Bangladesh.

Britain

No details released yet.

Belgium

No reports of any victims.

China

Xinhua news agency, quoting the Chinese Embassy in Kathmandu, reports four people confirmed dead and 10 seriously injured.

Croatia

Four tourists, all accounted for.

Czech Republic

155 nationals in Nepal, 54 have not yet been contacted.

France



Around 500 French nationals located and confirmed safe, no reports of any deaths or injuries.

Germany

No details released yet.

Greece

Two Greek nationals safe.

India

Five Indians killed in Nepal, and another 66 in Indian regions over the border. So far, 1,137 Indians evacuated from Nepal.

Indonesia

Thirty-four nationals in Nepal, 18 of them resident. Eighteen have not yet been contacted.

Israel

About 600 Israelis estimated to be in Nepal. About 400 have been contacted, most of them sheltering at the embassy in Kathmandu. These include 25 couples in Nepal to bring home babies born to surrogate mothers.

Italy

More than 300 Italians in Nepal have been traced, others not yet contacted.

Japan

No reports of Japanese killed or injured, though checks are still under way. Some 1,100 Japanese living in Nepal are registered with the embassy, but no information on number of nationals travelling through.

Latvia

Local news agencies report around 41 people from Latvia in Nepal at the moment. Four are missing.

Lithuania

25 Lithuanian nationals registered in Nepal are safe, no news on unregistered travellers.

Malaysia

All Malaysians in Nepal are accounted for and safe, including a team of Malaysian climbers at Everest base camp.

Norway

About 150 nationals in Nepal, no reports of any dead or injured.

Pakistan

No information on exact number of nationals in Nepal, up to 15 have asked to be evacuated.

Philippines

Two Filipino climbers are reported safe.

Poland

No news on any Poles affected.

Portugal

All seven Portuguese known to be in Nepal are safe.

Romania

Nineteen Romanians in Nepal, including mountaineer Alex Gavan and three others, all reported to be safe.

Russia

Tass news agency, citing Emergencies Ministry, says no casualties among Russians.

Singapore

No reports of any casualties.

South Korea

Three nationals injured in the earthquake. 650 residents and as many as 1,000 travellers are estimated to have been in Nepal.

Sweden

Around 40 Swedes known to be in Nepal, no reports of casualties.

United States

Three Americans killed.
</text>