<url>
http://www.firstpost.com/world/live-rahul-gandhi-visits-nepal-embassy-even-as-quake-death-toll-crosses-6000-mark-2212618.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Live: Nepal earthquake death toll touches 7,365; 100 bodies found at a village
</headline>

<text>
A high-intensity quake measuring 7.9 on the Richter scale on Saturday rocked many parts of east and north India, including Delhi. The epicentre of the earthquake was in Nepal.

Tremors were felt across eastern and northern parts of India, said JL Gautam, Head Operations Seismology of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD).

"Earthquake of magnitude 7.5 occurred today at 11.41 AM between latitude 28.1 North and Longitude 84.6 East. The epicentre was located in Nepal," an IMD statement said. The magnitude was later revised to 7.9.

The tremors, which were felt in Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, lasted for about a minute, triggering panic and forcing people to rush out of their houses and offices.

There were no immediate reports of loss of life or damage to property in Delhi, but several houses were damaged and reports of people being injured in Nepal.

PM Narendra Modi tweeted about the earthquake, saying the government was in the process of finding out more information.

News has come in about an Earthquake in Nepal. Several parts of India also experienced tremors. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

We are in the process of finding more information and are working to reach out to those affected, both at home & in Nepal. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) April 25, 2015

ANI also reported that after the tremors, a stampede took place in Kutchery, Varanasi.

Officials said Metro train services in Delhi were also affected due to the earthquake. Mobile phone services in Patna were also reportedly affected.

Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar consulted his state administration and took stock of the situation. "Information is being collected from all districts. Everyone is on the field," Nitish Kumar said.

Mild tremors were felt in various parts of Uttar Pradesh, triggering panic and forcing people to rush out in the open.

Etah, Farukkhabad, Mainpuri, Hathras, Aligarh, Varanasi, Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Faizabad and Muzaffarnagar were some of the districts that experienced the quake.

In Rajasthan, the tremors were felt in Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Ajmer, Sikar and Bundi.

In Jaipur, people in Bapu Nagar, Barkat Nagar, Sodala and Jhotwara rushed out of their buildings in panic. However, no loss to life or property was reported.

The tremors were felt in various parts of Kolkata, especially in Lake Town, Salt Lake, Dalhousie and Park street area.

"The tremors of the earthquake which had its epicentre in Nepal region was felt here in the city and other parts of the Eastern region. The magnitude of the earthquake on the Richter Scale is 7.5 . We are still waiting for more details," DK Das , a senior official of Kolkata Meteorological department said.

Reports from the districts said it was also experienced in Purulia, Bankura, Burdwan, East Midnapore and Nadia district.

No loss of life or property was reported from anywhere in Haryana and Punjab, which also felt the tremors.

DG of Meteorological Department LS Rathore also said that aftershocks of 6.6 magnitude were felt following the initial tremors. MET Director GL Gautam called the earthquake a "massive earthquake".

(With inputs from PTI)
</text>