<url>
http://mumbaimirror.com/news/world/Teen-saved-five-days-after-quake/articleshow/47116005.cms
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Teen saved five days after quake
</headline>

<text>
MAJOR HURDLES

BABY REUNITED WITH MUM

PAK BEEF ROW

♦ Rescue of Pema Lama, 15, a rare moment of joy in Kathmandu ♦ But overall outlook bleak: Hundreds sick from waterborne illnesses.A 15-year-old boy was pulled out alive from the collapsed ruins of Kathmandu's Hilton Hotel on Thursday and is recovering in hospital, five days after a huge earthquake caused devastation across Nepal and killed nearly 6,000.Pema Lama was rescued by Nepal's Armed Police Force and was put in a neck brace and carried on a stretcher to a waiting ambulance. Hundreds of onlookers broke into applause when they saw that the teenager was alive.Lama was conscious, held the hand of one of his rescuers and looked towards a large group of news crews as he was brought to safety. "When the quake came, I got hit on my chin and when I tried to come out I was trapped. I was on the ground (floor) only. We were eating while the earthquake came," Lama said at a Israeli military-run field hospital. "I never thought I would make it out alive."Libby Weiss, a spokeswoman at the hospital, said Lama was doing remarkably well, confirming he did not have any major injuries. "He was under the rubble for 120 hours and it is certainly the longest we have heard anybody of being under the rubble and surviving," she said.Lama's rescue is a rare moment of joy for a country overwhelmed by the disaster. Officials said on Thursday that the chances of finding more survivors were fading, particularly in hardhit rural areas where aid has yet to reach.While rescuers were out in the capital despite heavy morning rain, helicopters could not fly to the worst-hit areas in the countryside of the Himalayan nation. "The rain is adding to the problems. Nature seems to be against us," said Rameshwor Dandal, chief of the disaster management centre at Nepal's home ministry.Anger over the pace of the rescue has flared up in some areas, with Nepalis accusing the government of being too slow to distribute international aid that flooded into the country. In Ashrang village in Gorkha, one of the worst-hit districts, hundreds of Nepali villagers were living out in the open with little food and water despite boxes of biscuits, juices and sacks of rice and wheat being stored in a nearby government office.In Kathmandu and other cities, hospitals are overflowing with injured. "The new waves of patients are those who survived the quake, but are sick because they were living in the open and drinking contaminated water," said Dr Binay Pandey at Bir Hospital in the capital.Dr Pandey said at least 1,200 patients suffering from water-borne illnesses had been admitted in the hospital since Wednesday morning.Relief aid group Oxfam says congestion at Kathmandu airport, blocked roads, fuel shortages and difficult terrain are slowing down the pace of aid delivery. The group is looking at ways to transport essential goods overland from India. It says challenges include getting aid to remote mountain villages, many of which are connected by a single dirt road.Five-month-old Sonit Awal, who was pulled out unhurt from the rubble of a building in the ancient Nepal city of Bhatkapur, has been reunited with his mother. Sonit was trapped under the debris for 22 hours.Pakistan reportedly sent packets of "beef masala" as part of its relief supplies to Nepal, which has a majority Hindu population. Indian doctors at Kathmandu's Bir Hospital said that beef masala packets were sent by Pakistan on Tuesday, according to a report.
</text>