<url>
http://www.westernadvocate.com.au/story/3049372/nepal-earthquake-australian-survivors-evacuated-by-the-royal-australian-air-force-to-bangkok/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australian survivors evacuated by the Royal Australian Air Force to Bangkok
</headline>

<text>
'We are doing our utmost to locate them and ensure their safety' ... Australia's Ambassador to Nepal, Glenn White, explains staff are still trying to help Australians missing in remote areas. Photo: Matt Wade

Relieved ... Australian evacuees wait to be transferred to RAAF transport planes at a terminal in Kathmandu International Airport. Photo: Matt Wade

Max Harach, 32, from Sydney was in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck but sought safety outside the city. Photo: Matt Wade

Kathmandu: More than 100 Australians stranded by the Nepal earthquake have been evacuated to Bangkok on two RAAF transport aircraft.

The relief was palpable as the group gathered at Kathmandu International Airport on Thursday evening to take the flights arranged by the Australian government. The aircraft unloaded emergency relief supplies to be distributed in Nepal before the 106 evacuees boarded.

Suyana Shrestha and her three-year-old son Siraj, who were among the evacuees, were visiting relatives in Nepal when the quake hit.

"It was such a shock, I still feel mentally disturbed," she said. "I just want to go home now."

Alice Forest, 27, was on a bus when the quake hit and narrowly missed being hit by a landslide.

"It will be a relief to get away from the tremors and the constant stress and to debrief a little bit but it's really sad to be leaving," she said. Ms Forest said she will definitely return to Nepal.

Some Australians are still stranded in remote parts of Nepal. But the Australian Ambassador to Nepal, Glenn White, said all the Australians the embassy is aware of in Nepal are safe.

"We are doing our utmost to locate them and ensure their safety and after that we'd very much like to help them get back but as an embassy we can't," he said.

Ambassador White said the Nepal Government has "basically commandeered" the country's helicopters so they can be used in the relief effort.

He said the embassy would attempt to retrieve people from remote areas if they have injuries.

"There are a couple of cases where we are looking very closely at trying to do something like that," he said.

Several of the evacuees who departed Nepal last night had injuries including Grace Graham and Camille Thomas. The pair, aged 18, was hit by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake while they were trekking. Ms Graham has frostbite while Ms Thomas has ankle sprains and hearing loss.

"I couldn't be happier to be heading home," Ms Thomas said.

Both would like to return to Nepal "but not for a while."

Max Harach, from Dee Why in Sydney, was enjoying a cup of tea in a Kathmandu café when debris started falling on him as the earthquake shook.

"I saw the locals were really freaking out and that's when you know something is really going down," he said.

Mr Harash, initially ran to a more open area with a group of friends and then fled to a less built up area outside Kathmandu. He only felt safe to return after three days.

"I feel rally bad for the locals, it's going to take a long time for them to recover," he said.

Follow FairfaxForeign on Twitter
</text>