<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2015/s4227849.htm
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: rare joy as two survivors pulled from the rubble but isolated communities still desperate for help
</headline>

<text>
David Taylor reported this story on Friday, May 1, 2015 18:10:00

MARK COLVIN: To Bangkok where the first Australians evacuated from Kathmandu by Air Force transport planes have arrived.



Near the base of Mount Everest, many other Australians and other foreigners remain stranded.



Meanwhile hundreds of thousands of people near the quake's epicentre are still waiting for help from rescue teams.



Many Nepalese are still living without food, water or shelter.



But amidst the hardship and despair, there was a rare moment of joy today.



David Taylor has our report.



DAVID TAYLOR: Hope has been fading that rescue workers would find any remaining survivors. Five days have passed since the earthquake struck Nepal.



Then today not one, but two survivors were found deep in the rubble.



(Sound of people yelling and cheering)



A huge crowd cheered as 15-year-old Pemba Lama emerged.



The teenager told the BBC he survived by drinking water wrung from wet clothes.



Then another survivor, a woman called Krishna, in her 20s.



She was working as a maid in a Kathmandu hotel when the quake struck.



Rescue teams from five countries dug through the rubble for four hours to reach the woman, who was awake but weak.



Police inspector, Laxman Basnet.



LAXMAN BASNET: There were lots of guests in those hotels. There were three hotels. So we guessed there might be lots of victims inside that building.



DAVID TAYLOR: Although rescue teams have had some success in Kathmandu, landslides and poor weather have hampered efforts in isolated districts.



According to a Nepali government spokesman, helicopters can't fly because of rainfall and cloudy conditions.



In a statement the Red Cross said that the area north-east of Kathmandu stood out as one of the worst affected.



It said one of the teams that returned from the Chautara region reported that 90 per cent of the homes there had been destroyed.



There remains though an overwhelming need for international aid.



Two Royal Australian Air Force C-17 Globemasters arrived last night in the Nepalese capital, bringing 15 tonnes of Australian Government aid. Supplies included water and materials for shelter.



Those planes have now returned to Bangkok, with a new cargo of more than a hundred Australian citizens on board.



AUSTRALIAN WOMAN: I don't want to be going home, I feel like a coward leaving. But I feel that my family back home are really worried about me.



AUSTRALIAN WOMAN 2: It's a guilty sort of relief though. I mean, we're fine and we know that we're going to be safe. But we're still really praying for everyone that can't just fly away from their problems like we can.



AUSTRALIAN MAN: Yeah, I guess once we get back to Thailand, have a few drinks, then everything will be okay then, hopefully.



DAVID TAYLOR: There are likely to be more evacuation flights in coming days.



Many Nepalese have been sleeping in the open since Saturday's quake.



NEPALESE MAN: The situation of this district is very devastating. Most all buildings are destroyed and most of the people are houseless, they have not anything, any place to dwell now, from now on.



DAVID TAYLOR: Many are still dealing with just how little remains standing in the capital.



Kathmandu resident Nhuchhe Munikai.



NHUCHHE MUNIKAI: This place was, is known all over the world and now you can also see here, there's nothing now.



DAVID TAYLOR: The UN says more than eight million people have been affected and about 70,000 houses destroyed.



The government has warned that the death toll from Saturday's quake could rise to more than 10,000.



MARK COLVIN: David Taylor.
</text>