<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-05-01/nepal-aid/6436476
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: First Australians evacuated from Kathmandu on board RAAF transport planes
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: First Australians evacuated from Kathmandu on board RAAF transport planes

Updated

The first Royal Australian Air Force flights have flown Australians out of Nepal's capital Kathmandu after delivering 15 tonnes of aid for the earthquake-hit nation.

More than 100 people including 66 Australians - a mix of trekkers, tourists, and volunteer workers - were flown to Bangkok on two RAAF C-17 Globemaster transport planes.

But more Australian trekkers and tourists remain stranded, including many more in the trekking hub of Lukla, near Mount Everest.

Over the coming days there are expected to be more evacuation flights, as trekkers make their way back to Kathmandu.

Tasmanian Leigh Ellis was happy to be headed for Bangkok.

"I guess once we get back to Thailand, have a few drinks, and everything will be OK then hopefully," she said.

Most of the evacuees had been camped out at the Australian embassy since the quake.

They were bussed to the airport and ushered quickly onto the tarmac with the help of consular staff.

The evacuees flew into Bangkok with the kind of travel stories they had not bargained for when they set off on their journeys.

Melbourne woman Jess Smith, 21, was in Nepal volunteering at a school when the quake hit and said she found it troubling to leave.

"It's a guilty sort of relief. We're fine and we know that we're going to be safe but we're still really praying for everyone that can't just fly away from their problems like we can."

Planes bring desperately needed bottled water and shelter

Australian ambassador to Nepal Glenn White has been tasked with leading the effort to account for the hundreds of Australians who were in Nepal when the quake hit.

"We've located most Australians, or at least we think they're safe," he said.

The Globemasters had flown in to Kathmandu carrying aid supplies including bottled water, purification tablets, and tents and tarpaulins.

The risk of easily-spread water-borne diseases has been heightened in the tent cities that have popped up among the earthquake wreckage.

With monsoon season approaching, shelters are being constructed from anything that is available, including broken bits of plastic and food packaging.

Relief agencies said the scale of the disaster was overwhelming.

Oxfam chief executive Helen Szoke said the organisation had been building latrines and rainwater tanks, with the focus on water and sanitation.

She said thousands of people were camping out and aftershocks had made many too afraid to return to their homes.

"We have to make sure that the people who are alive and are living in temporary shelters ... who don't have the confidence to go back into their homes, have got enough to keep them going until more permanent shelter can be sorted out for them," she said.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

"In addition to the formal government camps there are many other camps that are springing up as people have to make do.

"And these are thousands of people, and of course there's the added complexity for older people, certainly for children and young women."

How long the aid will take to get to where it is needed in unclear, as Australia is not in direct charge of its distribution.

That task has been handed over to the Nepalese version of the Care organisation.

However, 10 extra consular office officials will arrive in Nepal in the next few days and it is hoped their arrival will accelerate the distribution plan and recovery process.

More than 5,800 people are now confirmed to have died in Saturday's magnitude-7.8 earthquake, with the death toll expected to climb as rescue teams reach remote areas.

Up to 20 of the Australian citizens registered with the Government as being in Nepal are still unaccounted for.

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, relief-and-aid-organisations, nepal

First posted
</text>