<url>
http://www.brantfordexpositor.ca/2015/04/30/nepal-earthquake-all-our-family-is-safe
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
'All our family is safe'
</headline>

<text>
Last Saturday's devastating earthquake in Nepal managed to shake a city family almost 12,000 kilometres away.

Nagindra Basnet and his wife, Urmila Thapa, each have extensive family in the area affected by the quake. They were awakened with news of the disaster at 3:45 a.m. by a friend.

They spent the next few days following news of the catastrophe and trying to reach loved ones in Nepal.

"It was very frustrating," said Basnet, who was trained as a pharmacist in Nepal but works as a chemist in Brantford.

"There was no telephone contact or media to give us news for several days."

The couple have plenty of people to worry about. Basnet has five brothers, five sisters and his parents in the area of Nepal's capital, Kathmandu, which was hard hit by the quake. His wife has five sisters, one brother and her parents.

The death toll in the 7.8 magnitude quake has topped 5,800, with twice that number wounded and more than five million left homeless.

"All our family is safe," says a relieved Basnet. "They were sleeping outside for three nights."

Just a few weeks ago, Basnet, Thapa and their two children travelled to Nepal to visit relatives and attend a religious festival.

"I'm unlucky," said Basnet. "We are safe here but I can do nothing here. If I was there at least I could help some."

Basnet and his family are among the Nepali that former medical missionary Betty Neumann keeps tabs on.

Neumann, the younger sister of Brantford city councillor David Neumann, was attached to a Nepal mission for about 15 years.

"I'm really thankful the Nepali people I know personally are OK," she said.

Trained as a nurse and a midwife, Neumann travelled to Nepal in 1973 and returned to Canada in 1987. During much of her time in Nepal, she was headquartered in Pokhara, which is on the west side of the earthquake zone, working with the International Nepal Fellowship.

Neumann delivered babies, worked at "the shining hospital" -- a Quonset hut in a Nepalese valley - and focused on nutrition, immunization and tuberculosis and leprosy control.

"It was scary in the smaller centres where we were so remote. I would send medical questions in a mail bag by plane and two weeks later get an answer from a doctor."

Since the April 25 quake, Neumann has been monitoring her email and Facebook for the latest news.

"Many people were killed," says Neumann, who attends Shenstone Baptist Church on St. George Street.

"I've heard about 500 Nepali Christians lost their lives in buildings that collapsed. Many people are still living outside, shell-shocked, and unable to get all these bodies out of these collapsed buildings.

"It's a dreadful thing."

Both Neumann and the Basnet family are pleased Canada is sending help to Nepal. They urge those who can to donate during the month-long window when the Canadian government will match donations for the cause.

Basnet said he will be working to raise donations at his workplace, Germiphene Corp. in Cainsville, and will explore other options to raise funds in the community.

susan.gamble@sunmedia.ca @EXPSGamble

Can you help?

Money is the most critical form of relief for the millions affected by the Nepal earthquake.

So far, the local Red Cross has collected $5,000.

“I think the Canadian office is getting more because people can now donate online or by texting through an app,” says community services co-ordinator Judi Mikolich.

Money donated to the Red Cross goes directly to Nepal and the work the agency is doing there.

Dollar for dollar, those donations are being matched by the Canadian government which is promising to continue matching until at least May 25.

Canada has also sent a disaster assistance response team to the area and committed $5 million toward relief efforts.

Along with the Red Cross, eligible charities for the doubling of donations include: World Vision Canada, Save the Children, Oxfam Canada, Unicef Canada, Doctors Without Borders, Care Canada, Samaritan's Purse and Habitat for Humanity Canada.

Other donation options and updates can be viewed at the Canada Helps webpage, www.crisisreliefcentre.org.
</text>