<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-05/02/c_134202776.htm
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Chinese rescuers mark Labor's Day with relief efforts - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
by Wu Qiang, Zhao Yishen, Xu Yanyan

KATHMANDU, May 1 (Xinhua)-- Chinese relief workers in earthquake-hit Nepal have marked the International Labor Day on Friday in rescue missions and other aid works.

A mobile hospital of the China Red Cross was parked by the side of the ruins of Bhaktapur. The place is known as the "cultural gem " of Nepal and residence of numerous ancient Nepal kings and princes, now it is severely damaged to a miserable state during the quake.

Chen Jinhong, chief of the China Red Cross team, said that the Chinese expedition, which consists of 18 doctors, is working hard to investigate the latest situation of the disaster.

"What we are focusing on now is prevention of epidemics, purification of water, observation of the recovery of the sick and injured, and will produce a plan to be carried out in the next few days," said Chen.

He said the Nepal Army helicopters will bring half of the team to the provinces which were hit by the quake the worst this weekend.

Zou Shaodong, a Chinese tourism agency worker in Nepal and now working as coordinator for the relief agencies operating here, said he is working with several teams of rescuers and aid workers from China and has a association of local Chinese community helping the quake victims.

At the camp where Zou and his colleagues were staying, all the relief workers got up early in the morning and set off to various parts of the capital city to help people in need. They brought food, drinking water, medicine and clothes to the most vulnerable people like poor women and children.

More than 350 Chinese engineers, medical doctors and rescue workers are now working in Nepal after the nation was hit by a devastating 7.9-magnitude quake Saturday, according to Wu Chuntai, Chinese Ambassador to Nepal, who spent his Labor's Day as busy as everyday since the earthquake.

Wu had to stay up for the whole night on coordinating China's assistance to Nepal.

On Friday noon, Wu and Mahesh Nasnet, Nepal's minister of industry, paid a visit to a base of a Chinese military medical team in the downtown Kathmandu and conveyed the gratitude message to the Chinese medical soldiers.

He said, on the Labor Day, that he sincerely appreciates the hard efforts of the Chinese medical soldiers in rescuing Nepal's victims.

Nasnet also expressed his gratitude to the hardworking Chinese soldiers who are offering medical supports to the quake victims in Nepal.

The 180-member Chinese military medical team arrived in Nepal within two days after the catastrophe, providing medical support to the Nepali victims including surgery and trauma alleviation.

In Machha Pokhari area of Kathmandu, China's Blue Sky Rescue ( BSR) team has been working with the Nepalese army at two sites, where several victims were confirmed to be buried in. The badly damaged buildings were leaning forward and could collapse at any time, but several Chinese rescuers dived into the bottom without fear and tried to pull a corpse out.

"We have been working here for seven hours since this morning, a crossbeam was on top of the woman and if we move it the whole building could fall immediately, so it's extremely hard to bring the body out," said Wang Ke, a member of the BSR.

"We don't want to damage the body and that's the final respect we must provide," he added.

According to Wang, the BSR has already found more than 10 bodies since the quake and will start the disinfecting process soon in case of a possible epidemic.

Meanwhile, both foreign and local relief workers are also trying their best to save lives and help the quake-ravaged country overcome the calamities.

Santoshi Gazurel, a 17-year-old student of the Kist Medical School in Kathmandu, said she and her classmates were going from community from community to help people protect from diseases and prevent the outbreak of epidemics like diarrhea.

Samjhana Tuladhar, a 27-year-old IT programmer who lost her house in the quake, said she had been helping the Nepalese army carry out rescue and relief operation in the town since last Saturday.

Since Friday, a medical team the Thai Royal Army has set up a base by the side of the ruins of the Machhindranath Buddhist Temple.

Col. Teerasak Krisnaseranee, chief of the Military Medical Emergency Purpose Team from Fort Surasi Hospital in Thailand, told Xinhua that he and his colleagues were eager to help the Nepalese people in this humanitarian crisis.

In Bhaktapur, a large state-of-art field hospital was also set up by the Pakistan Army. Consisting of a dozen large military tents, the hospital has treated over 500 people so far and has been sending rescuers to nearby areas as well to look for survivors and injured.

Major Shahzad Nayyar, a surgeon general at the hospital, said that the Pakistani rescuers have saved at least one survivor from the rubbles. The nine doctors and seven nurses were working intensively to save lives over the past several days.
</text>