<url>
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-05/01/c_134202592.htm
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Quake-hit Nepal awaits quick relief distribution as toll mounts to 6,254 - Xinhua
</headline>

<text>
Photo taken on May 1, 2015 shows a damaged road in Rasuwa, Nepal. (Xinhua/Sunil Sharma)

by Zhang Ning, Zhou Shengping

KATHMANDU, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Earthquake-rattled Nepal is demanding more relief materials, as the death toll reached to 6, 254 on Friday.

Out of 29 "severely affected" districts, 13 have not yet received food supply and tents.

In worst-hit Gorkha region, areas including Barpak, Laprak, Baluwa and Muchchok have not received food aid and other relief items, local newspaper the Kathmandu Post reported.

Multiple landslides triggered by the quake have blocked the roads. Many villages in Sindhupalchok district lost road access after the highway collapsed.

Local authorities in 13 quake-hit districts estimated that some 600,000 tents are needed to construct temporary shelters.

In Dhading district, locals are demanding 50,000 tents for temporary shelters as a large number of houses collapsed due to the tremor.

"The government is trying its best to address post-quake problems but we are having a lot of troubles with the huge disparity between demand and supply," Rameshwor Dangal, chief of the Disaster Management Division at the Ministry of Home Affairs, was quoted by the newspaper as saying.

Government officials said 50,000 tents have been so far distributed by the authorities, among which 10,000 were provided by the Nepal Red Cross Society and 25,000 by the Ministry of Urban Development.

Lack of food has also emerged in many quake-hit areas, as road obstruction and landslide have prevented food supplies from reaching remote districts including Gorkha.

In many districts, recently harvested winter grains, including wheat and mustard, have been buried by the quake.

Following the earthquake, UNICEF has delivered 29 metric tons of humanitarian supplies to Nepal including tents, water purification tablets, first aid and hygiene kits to reach at least 1.7 million children living in areas hardest hit by the earthquake.

However, the message from the affected areas are clear for more aid in fast delivery speed.

Related:

Nepal earthquake's impact on food security, agriculture likely very high: FAO

ROME, April 30 (Xinhua) -- Financial aid is urgently needed to help disaster-struck Nepalese farmers rapidly recover lost agricultural inputs and resume preparations for the imminent rice sowing season, the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) of United Nations said Thursday.

The Rome-based UN agency said the impact of the recent major earthquake on food security and agricultural livelihoods expected to be very high and some 8 million U.S. dollars will be needed for Nepalese farmers. Full story

China announces second Nepal aid supply

BEIJING, April 29 (Xinhua) -- China will provide a second batch of humanitarian aid worth 40 million yuan (6.54 million U.S. dollars) to Nepal following Saturday's earthquake, the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) said on Wednesday.

The aid, including water purification equipment, first aid kits, tents and blankets, will be delivered to Nepal as soon as possible, the ministry said in a statement. Full story

UN appeals 415 mln USD to support Nepal

UNITED NATIONS, April 29 (Xinhua) -- The United Nations on Wednesday appealed 415 million U.S. dollars to support the Nepali government to provide vital relief to earthquake-affected people.

UN Deputy Spokesperson Farhan Haq told a daily briefing that the funds will go towards a joint action plan to address the most critical needs over the next three months in areas of shelter, water and sanitation, emergency health, food, and protection. Full story

Nepal's top government official praises China's support in rescue operation

KATHMANDU, April 29 (Xinhua) -- As China has intensified rescue operation and medical treatment in Nepal following two major earthquakes in Nepal on Sunday and Saturday, a senior government official has highly praised China's support in this great tragedy of the Himalayan nation.
</text>