<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/coimbatore/Residents-with-family-friends-in-Nepal-are-in-distress/articleshow/47120100.cms
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Residents with family, friends in Nepal are in distress
</headline>

<text>
COIMBATORE: Ever since Nepal suffered massive destruction due to a devastating earthquake that occurred this past Saturday, Mathivanan has been spending anxious days and sleepless nights trying to contact his brother who went on a fun trip to Pokhra, taking along his two children, one an infant and the other a toddler."I feel helpless. I try to keep in touch with them. Right now, they are unable to return to India. They had been staying at the Embassy in Pokhara but now with the arrival of the Indian rescue team, they have been asked to vacate. They were supposed to return to India on April 27," said Mathivanan. He has informed the district administration and has called the disaster management numbers but no one seems to respond to his calls. "Even though I told them that my brother was travelling with very young children, no one is willing to help me," said Mathivanan who stays with his family in Sundarapuram. "I work in Bangalore but I won't return to work unless my brother returns home," he said.Like him, there are several other residents with friends and family in Nepal who are in great distress. A few who were able to get in touch with their relatives said that many of them had not eaten in days. The city has at least 3000 Nepalis who are all desperately trying to connect with their families.Saritha Agarwal, born and brought up in Nepal, has been having sleepless nights since the day she heard about the earthquake. Her entire family and her husband's family live in Nepal, she said. "My brother and his wife live in Kathmandu. I was able to speak to them on Sunday. They told me they had not eaten at all as food supplies were limited. Since my parents live in Birgunj, a border town, they are safe as there was not much damage there. But others in Viratnagar and Bihar, are literally out on the streets, worried the earthquake would strike again," she said.As per government data, 17 residents on a holiday to Nepal had returned on Monday. Mathivanan's brother's family who had travelled to Pokhara from Hyderabad had sent them an e-mail. Since he had travelled from Andhra Pradesh, they have informed the Andhra Pradesh government.President of Moolpravas All India Nepali Ekta Samaj in Coimbatore, Padam Bahadur, said that they have sent five members of their association to Nepal to help the families of members. "I work as a security guard here. My entire family is there and I am just glad they are safe. But every minute is very difficult for us as the aftershocks continue to occur," said Gopal Sharma, secretary of the association.As soon as Prasad heard about the earthquake, he tried to contact his brother who lives in Nepal, but in vain. "At least we had newspapers and television which kept us informed. My brother on the other hand told me on Sunday evening that he was not even aware of what was happening in the next village. Electricity and communication lines were disrupted while food and water were in short supply. It was only on Monday morning that the rescue operations reached remote villages. Up till then, only Kathmandu had been covered," said Prasad. His cousin, who lives in a rural town, said over the phone that rescue operations were not available for them at all. "We are completely cut off from everyone and we live in constant fear. Only on Monday, the officials reached out to us," said Sivaram from Baglung in Nepal.
</text>