<url>
http://www.therecord.com//news-story/5596253--it-was-like-standing-on-the-deck-of-a-ship-/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
‘It was like standing on the deck of a ship’
</headline>

<text>
His group had arranged a time and spot to meet before setting out on the next leg of their journey, to Chitwan National Park in south-central Nepal. Everyone showed up at the assigned time, and the group quickly discussed what they should do in the wake of the quake. But as the quake hadn't seemed too damaging in Pokhara, and they hadn't yet got word of the destruction elsewhere in the country, the group decided to continue with their planned itinerary, since Chitwan was in the flatter south where it would be safer.

As they journeyed, they began to see landslides and to learn the true horror of what had occurred that morning. The group's focus soon turned to getting word to their families they were safe, and to figuring out how to get home.

Email and cellphone service weren't available, but Giesbrecht managed to text his son within hours. Later, his wife Karen was able to call, and gave him the emergency number to contact Canadian officials with the Department of Foreign Affairs.

Despite some reports of complaints about the service provided to Canadians affected by the quake, Giesbrecht said the staff was helpful and served as a vital lifeline to information. They helped him and his group work through the complex logistics of arranging travel home when normal schedules and infrastructure had been thrown into upheaval. "You feel like you've got a team all of a sudden, helping you," Giesbrecht said.

Tamrakar, the guide, managed to contact the tour company's Indian office and work on ways to get everyone home. It turned out the group had three options: drive to Kathmandu, a journey that usually takes five hours but which officials warned would take 12; drive five hours into India, which had waived visa restrictions in the wake of the disaster, and catch a flight to Delhi and then home; or try to catch a short flight to Kathmandu, in hopes of getting to the airport in time for the commercial flight home they had originally booked.

Then the road to Kathmandu was shut. The short flight to the Nepalese capital was delayed, first one hour, then two, then three, as the skies opened with punishing rain that grounded flights. Giesbrecht and his two companions had to be on that plane by mid-afternoon if they had any hope of making their flight home. Just as they were about to give up hope, the clouds broke up, and the flight to Kathmandu was cleared for takeoff.

As they flew in to Kathmandu a short while later, the horrific damage wrought by the quake became clear, with entire blocks reduced to rubble, millions of people staying in makeshift shelters in open areas away from buildings, emergency helicopters whirring everywhere, and huge transport planes unloading relief.

Giesbrecht and his friends opted to stay at the airport until their flight eight hours later. "We just wanted to be not a burden, to just stay out of the way."

Giesbrecht, a Kitchener lawyer who has travelled to many trouble spots — South Sudan, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti — as part of his work in adoption law, is no stranger to difficult situations. But emerging safely and relatively easily from the chaos of Nepal struck him in several ways.

He was deeply impressed by the strength and dignity with which the Nepalese people coped with the disaster. "To see so many people in such distress, and acting so calmly, taking adversity so well, seeing people do the best they can in the circumstances, and putting self second, it was wonderful to see."

None of the Nepalese he dealt with exploited the disaster by inflating their prices, and everyone shared any food they were able to obtain. Most strikingly, Tamrakar, the guide from G Adventures, refused to let the travellers he was responsible for give him any sort of tip, saying they needed every penny to cover unexpected expenses and to make sure they got home.

"Once he knew his own family was safe, he said we were his family now, and he made sure we were all OK," Giesbrecht said.

Finally, he was struck upon his return Wednesday to his comfortable home in Waterloo, with its well-stocked fridge. "We have such abundance here. We are blessed to be here in a developed country, and it's really incumbent on us to use that abundance for others."

cthompson@therecord.com , Twitter: @ThompsonRecord
</text>