<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3064072/Heartbreaking-moment-girl-s-dead-father-pulled-rubble-Nepal-earthquake-death-toll-reaches-6-200-Hope-finding-survivors-fading-aid-groups-struggle-reach-cut-areas.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal girl's dead father is pulled from rubble after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A teenage girl covers her agonised face as she weeps beside the body of her dead father, recovered today from a collapsed building in Kathmandu.

Anita, 14, is just one of thousands left devastated by the the rising death toll, which now stands at 6,204, six days after the 7.8-magnitude quake.

Nepal officials say at least 13,932 more were injured but the fate of thousands more in many remote areas remains unknown as aid efforts are hampered by poor weather and inhospitable terrain.

A British doctor who traveled to Nepal to assist the aid mission has told of the harrowing scenes witnessed by rescuers and said any hope for trapped survivors is fading.

Scroll down for video

Devastated: A 14-year-old girl, known only as Anita, weeps for her dead father (behind) as his body is pulled from a collapsed building in Kathmandu by rescue workers

Richard Lyon, a consultant in emergency medicine with NHS Lothian, is part of a specialist unit of search and rescue experts, firefighters, medics and engineers flown out by the UK International Search & Rescue Team (ISAR).

He said: 'The humanitarian impact here is enormous, with many deceased in the streets when we arrived, limited power supply and water in the city running very low. Aid is arriving steadily, with the limitation of Kathmandu airport having a very small apron space.

'There have been several rescues early in the week but hope for trapped survivors is now fading.

'We are focussing on medical support, especially to some remote villages, some of which can only be reached by air.

'The local response we get when arriving in small, unaided villages can be overwhelming. Watching locals digging out loved ones with bare hands really hits home. I treated some of the avalanched Everest victims - many of whom had amazing survival tales.'

The doctor added: 'The imminent arrival of more Gurkhas and Chinook helicopters will be invaluable.

'It can be hard work, especially with the heat and humidity and I'm rapidly getting used to functioning on three hours sleep.'

An RAF Chinook helicopter left the UK today to help the aid efforts in Nepal as rescuers continue in the fading hunt for survivors.

So far, 20 helicopters from across the globe have landed in the districts of Dolakha, Sindhupalchok, Rasuwa, Gorkha, Nuwakot, and Dhading, carrying relief.

But Nepal has appealed for further airborne help to boost rescue efforts, while poor weather and regular landslides continue to hamper attempts to reach the most isolated places.

Three RAF CH47 Chinook helicopters are being sent to the region over the coming days, the first of which was set to leave RAF Brize Norton this morning aboard a commercial freight plane.

Carnage: A rescue worker stands on top of the mangled wreckage of what was once a building in Kathmandu, Nepal

Undeterred: Nepalese soldiers and members of a search and rescue team try to work on a destroyed building in Kathmandu

Mammoth task: Rescue teams and Nepalese soldiers continue their hunt for survivors, six days after the earthquake struck

Vital assistance: The Indian Air Force's Rapid Action Medical Team is providing much needed assistance to quake survivors

Relief: The international community has sent 20 helicopters to help the relief effort but officials say more are needed

A team of Gurkha engineers arrived in the Himalayan country yesterday aboard a C-17 aircraft, along with 18 tonnes of aid supplies that included shelter kits and solar lanterns.

Aid is slowly beginning to reach remote towns and villages nestled in the mountains and foothills but the overpowering smell of bodies trapped beneath the rubble of collapsed buildings in the capital is making it hard for residents to return to their homes.

IMMEDIATE CREMATIONS ORDERED The vast number of dead and stench of rotting bodies has led officials to demand immediate cremations. Disposal of the hundreds of bodies still being found six days after the 7.9 magnitude quake devastated the Himalayan nation of 28 million people, was causing a problem. Raman Lal, an Indian paramilitary force official working in coordination with Nepali forces, said they had been ordered to take swift action. 'Morgues are full beyond capacity and we have been given instruction to incinerate bodies immediately after they are pulled out,' he said.

Thousands of houses and other buildings have been destroyed, and the country has been plagued by more than 70 aftershocks since the disaster.

Now hopes of finding people alive in the cities or remote regions are starting to dwindle, despite a temporary boost when two people were pulled from the rubble five days after the disaster.

Dramatic footage yesterday showed crowds cheering as Nepalese rescuers freed 15-year-old Pemba Tamang from the debris of a seven-storey building which had collapsed in the capital.

Hours later Krishna Devi Khadka, aged in her 20s, was rescued in an area near Kathmandu's main bus terminal.

Information Minister Minendra Rijal said the government would provide 100,000 rupees (£655) in immediate assistance to the families of those killed, as well as 40,000 rupees (£260) for cremation or burial.

But reports also say officials have ordered the immediate cremation of any bodies found as the stench and risk of disease is growing while the nation's morgues are at capacity.

Nepalese finance minister Ram Sharan Mahat said it at least $2bn would be needed to rebuild homes, hospitals, government offices and historic buildings and he appealed for help from international donors. Others predict it will be far more.

He said: 'This is just an initial estimate and it will take time to assess the extent of damage and calculate the cost of rebuilding.'

The last disaster on this scale to hit the Himalayan nation, sandwiched between India and China, was in 1934 when 8,500 died.

Home ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dhakal said that, even though the previous quake was more powerful, there were fewer people living in the Kathmandu valley then.

'The scale of reconstruction will be unprecedented,' Dhakal said. 'We have still not even been able to assess the damage in remote areas, which have been completely devastated.'

Eerie: Low clouds can be seen over the city of Kathmandu as it wakes up to another day after a devastating earthquake killed thousands in the city

Injured: A woman and a young boy being treated at a medical camp being set up to help earthquake victims

Brave: Two young boys being checked over at a medical centre set up to help those injured in Saturday's powerful earthquake

Survivors: A boy and a girl who survived the disaster but have clear visible injuries from the devastating quake and aftermath

Rescued: Nepal military personnel carry an earthquake survivor on a stretcher after he arrives by helicopter from his village in Pokkara airport

As rescuers start to reach outlying areas, witnesses reported seeing between 70 to 80 per cent of buildings severely damaged in Chautara, northeast of Kathmandu towards the border with China's Tibet.

Anger over the pace of the rescue has flared in some areas, with Nepalis accusing the government of being too slow to distribute international aid that has flooded into the country.

In the UK, more than £26 million has been raised from public donations to help the appeal - including £5 million from the Government - by the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), which is co-ordinating the aid efforts of the UK's leading charities.

DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said: 'Getting the huge amount of essential supplies needed to the hundreds of thousands of people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed quickly is a huge logistical challenge which is being hampered by the limited capacity of the one main airport and extremely difficult terrain in the areas affected.

'Experienced aid teams are working around the clock to get supplies in to the country and then to people who need it. For example agencies have already distributed shelter materials to camps in the Kathmandu Valley and 750 shelter kits will reach remote Dolarka tomorrow. Aid is getting through by any means possible, including by tractor in some cases.

'Fuel shortages, power cuts and communications black outs are all making the delivery of aid more challenging.'

Flattened: Scenes of devastation pictured from the air in Kathmandu as British doctors said hopes of finding any more survivors were fast fading

Aid: Nepali villagers crossing a hanging bridge carrying sacks of food donated by the World Food Program (WFP) in Baluwa village in Gorkha district,
</text>