<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/saf-to-send-15-medical/1807698.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
SAF to send 15 medical personnel to aid Nepal relief efforts
</headline>

<text>
Personnel from the Changi Regional Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) Coordination Centre will also travel to assist in the relief efforts in Nepal, following the 7.8-magnitude earthquake on Saturday.

SINGAPORE: The Singapore Armed Forces (SAF) will send a team of 15 medical personnel, together with staff from the Changi Regional Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) Coordination Centre to Nepal, the Ministry of Defence said on Sunday (Apr 26).

A Republic of Singapore Air Force C-130 aircraft will provide airlift support to send the Singapore relief contingent to Nepal, after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the country on Saturday.

Besides the SAF and HADR personnel, the 55-strong search-and-rescue team from Singapore Civil Defence Force and a contingent of officers from the Singapore Police Force will also be on the flight.

Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said on Facebook Sunday that the Changi Regional HADR Coordination Centre is monitoring the situation.

"If required, the SAF will do more. Our condolences to the people of Nepal. Let us help and pray for them in this moment of despair and grief," he added.

< >There is devastation in Nepal as it was hit by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake yesterday. More than... Posted by Ng Eng Hen - Defence Minister on Saturday, 25 April 2015

Advertisement

Advertisement

Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean visited Singapore's Gurkha contingent on Sunday morning for a briefing on the situation in Nepal. "Our thoughts are with our officers and (their) families" he wrote on Facebook. He added that some from the Gurkha contingent are ready to depart for Nepal with Singapore's SCDF, SAF and SPF teams to help with search and recovery efforts, victim identification and to offer medical support.

DPM Teo meets Gurkhas Facebook post



Foreign Affairs Minister K Shanmugam shared on Facebook on Sunday that he was deeply saddened by the loss of lives and by the damage and destruction in Nepal, saying he had contacted his counterpart in Nepal to offer Singapore's assistance. Later, on the sidelines of the ASEAN Summit in Kuala Lumpur, he told Channel NewsAsia: "Certainly from Singapore's perspective, we want to help and other ASEAN countries expressed their condolences in the strongest possible terms and I'm sure they will be doing what they can - each one within the capabilities each has."

Shanmugam on Nepal Facebook post

The devastating earthquake has resulted in more than 1,800 deaths as of Sunday, a figure officials said would likely rise. The US and European Union had earlier pledged their disaster relief support to Nepal.
</text>