<url>
http://www.getsurrey.co.uk/news/surrey-news/guildford-community-rallies-offer-support-9160440
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Guildford community rallies to offer support to Nepalese earthquake survivors
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Hundreds of Guildford residents are teaming up to provide funding and humanitarian relief to survivors of the Nepalese earthquakes.

The Guildford Nepalese Community will hold a candle-lit vigil tonight (Friday) at St Clare’s church, in Cabell Road, Park Barn, from 7.30pm until 9pm, and all are welcome to attend.

A 7.3-magnitude quake hit the country on Saturday and the death toll has so far risen to more then 5,000.

Those who survived the main earthquake are having to live through powerful aftershocks and are desperate for humanitarian aid.

Two critical care paramedics from South East Coast Ambulance Service are likely to be stationed in Nepal for up to three weeks, and will use their advanced trauma skills to help the victims.

Within 48 hours of last weekend’s disaster, Guildford East Explorer Scouts raised nearly £7,000 to help four villages in remote areas north of Kathmandu.

A team of Scouts had been working at one of the villages just 10 days prior to the earthquake, which was located just 10 miles from the epicentre.

Expedition leader Bernard Pentecost, said “We have not been able to contact people in the villages where we worked. We are desperate to know what has happened to them as it is inevitable they will have been hit hard by this disaster.

“The guides who led us, and their families, live in extreme poverty. They gave us invaluable support during our visits and we now want to give them our help as they try to rebuild their communities.

“We originally set a target of £5,000, but we are already well past that sum.

“It has been amazing to see the response.”

(Image: Rowan Griffiths)

In the past 10 years, Explorer Scouts from Merrow, Ripley, Wonersh, Cranleigh and Gomshall visited the villages to install clean water supplies.

The four villages visited by the Scouts were Gumda in Gorkha, Ranem in Solu Khumbu, Betal in Langtang and Nepani in Annapurna.

Explorer Scout Isaak Johnson, said: “It seems hard to believe that just 10 days ago we were enjoying this amazing place and now we see the pictures on television and in the press of this awful devastation.”

To support their appeal, visit mydonate.bt.com/events nepalearthquake15/ 224312.

Royal Surrey County Hospital is also providing support for its Nepalese staff, many of whom have lost loved ones or have family affected by the aftermath.

Briefings have been held to give those affected the chance to make requests, emergency contact numbers have been provided and a quiet room has been set up with access to a British Forces radio and live television feed.

Ongoing emotional supp-ort is being given to those who are affected.

Fundraising is taking place to raise money through donations, cake sales and clothes donations, and a multi-faith service is being held in the hospital’s chapel today at 11am, where everyone is welcome.

Alf Turner, director of organisational transformation, said: “Our thoughts are with all those staff members who have family in the earthquake-torn regions of Nepal.

“We know many have been impacted by the events and we will continue to do all possible to support them.”

The Guildford Chantries Rotary club is twinned with the Rotary Club of Rajdhani in Nepal, and is asking for donations to the main rotary site at www.rotarygbi.org/ rotary-reaches-help-nepal-earthquake-victims/.
</text>