<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/world/neighbours/foreign-secretary-jaishankar-nsa-ajit-doval-land-in-nepal-offer-anything-everything-to-help/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Foreign Secretary Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval land in Nepal, offer ‘anything, everything to help’
</headline>

<text>
The two also took stock of the relief and rescue operations being carried out by the Indian contingent. Upon their arrival, the duo flew straight to Barapak in Gorkha district to see the National Disaster Response Force in action.

Foreign secretary S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval arrived in Kathmandu on Friday and promised Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala that India would extend all possible help to the earthquake-hit country.

Read: India intensifies relief efforts in quake hit Nepal

The two also took stock of the relief and rescue operations being carried out by the Indian contingent. Upon their arrival, the duo flew straight to Barapak in Gorkha district to see the National Disaster Response Force in action. Gorkha is among the worst affected districts, where 407 lives have been lost.

Read: NDRF rescue team begins sifting through rubble in Nepal

As many as 16 NDRF teams comprising 748 members are currently involved in relief and rescue operations across Nepal and have saved 11 lives so far.

Share This Article Related Article PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Nitish Kumar over Bihar flood situation

PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Nitish Kumar over Bihar flood situation Heavy rains in Nepal, Seemanchal cause floods in four Bihar districts

Heavy rains in Nepal, Seemanchal cause floods in four Bihar districts Nepal earthquake: India adopts wait and watch approach, says won’t send team till Nepal asks for it

Nepal earthquake: India adopts wait and watch approach, says won’t send team till Nepal asks for it Special to the Express: How the NDRF raced against time in Nepal

Special to the Express: How the NDRF raced against time in Nepal India intensifies relief efforts in Nepal : Jaishankar, Doval to visit Nepal tomorrow

India intensifies relief efforts in Nepal : Jaishankar, Doval to visit Nepal tomorrow Nepal Earthquake Relief Effort: India reaches out, touches down

Jaishankar and Doval had a meeting lasting half an hour with Koirala and President Ram Baran Yadav in the afternoon.

Officials said the NSA did most of the talking and conveyed Indian PM Narendra Modi’s condolences over the loss of lives in Nepal, saying that Modi was “upset” over the tragedy.

The NSA also sought a list of things required by Nepal and said that India is ready to do “anything and everything” to assist the country. Doval said Nepal deserves credit for the way in which it has conducted the rescue and relief operations.

He also said that the work being done by the Indian contingent is being appreciated by the neighbouring country.

Video of the day

For all the latest World News, download Indian Express App
</text>