<url>
http://www.macclesfield-express.co.uk/news/local-news/dads-heartache-family-killed-nepal-9161168
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Dad's heartache as family killed in Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Get weekly updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

A dad whose family live in Nepal has spoken of his heartache after his village was destroyed by the earthquake.

More than 6,000 people have been killed after the major disaster hit last Saturday, toppling buildings in the capital, Kathmandu, and triggering avalanches in the Himalayas.

The tragedy has had a devastating impact, with thousands of people now also living in fear of aftershocks.

Meanwhile, bad weather is hampering the delivery of relief to remote villages. Hari Neupane, 47, from Macclesfield, had to wait until Wednesday to hear from his family who live in Sindhupalchok, a small village near the border with China.

The restauranteur has discovered that his uncle was killed in the disaster.

Hari, who co-owns the Nepalese restaurant Gurkha Dining, on Samuel Street, said: “It has been distressing to wait so long for news. I finally got through to my brother who tells me my parents are okay, but my uncle died. It’s is heartbreaking.”

In a brief phone call Hari was told that many homes in the village, including his family’s friends and neighbours, have been completely destroyed with many dead. Survivors are without shelter, food or electricity.

He said: “It is really bad there. The situation is made worse by the bad weather. They are desperate for help. There is nothing I can do but wait for contact and watch the news.”

Hari moved to the UK in 1996 and has lived in Macclesfield for eight years.

He lives on St George’s Place with his wife Somila, 37, and daughters Robina, 17, and Tanisha, 13.

There will be a number of fundraisers to help the victims of the disaster.

This Sunday Mash Guru on Back Wall Gate will host a jam session from 5pm to midnight, and on May 10, Gurkha Dining is serving food free of charge but asking customers to make donations for the appeal. There will be four sittings: 2-4pm, 4-6pm, 6-8pm and 8-10pm. Booking is recommended. Call 01625 348522.

All monies raised from both events will go to the charity Shanti Nepali Samaaj which is supporting the relief effort in Nepal.

Meanwhile, Ghurka Dining co-owner Dinesh Maharjan, who also lost family in the earthquake, is hosting a similar event at Ayo Gurkhali on Bank Square, Wilmslow, next Wednesday, May 6. Call 01625 538800 to book.
</text>