<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/7.30/content/2015/s4228052.htm
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake shows Western life 'more sacred', laments Tim Costello
</headline>

<text>
SABRA LANE, PRESENTER: The Australian Government's doubled its emergency assistance to the quake effort. It's giving another $5 million, taking the total to $10 million, with all of today's money going directly to the aid agencies providing emergency help on the ground.

World Vision's Tim Costello is in Kathmandu. He's just returned from visiting the Gorkha District, north-west of the capital and one of the worst-affected regions, to assess the damage first-hand. I spoke with him earlier from the grounds of a Kathmandu museum which had been transformed into a makeshift relief centre.

Tim Costello, international aid is pouring into Kathmandu airport, but by all accounts, it's not reaching remote areas quickly enough. Is that right?

TIM COSTELLO, CEO, WORLD VISION AUSTRALIA: That's absolutely right. And when you say "pouring in", there's only - I think it's seven or nine parking bays for large aircraft at Kathmandu airport. No - it's landlocked, so unlike Haiti, you can't bring them in by sea. And then once here, getting it out - and we've been out near the epicentre, Gorkha, and driving our material, then walking with the rest, it is really hard to get out. There are still so many villagers, desperate people, six days on, rightly angry, saying, "Where is the aid?"

SABRA LANE: Is it possible that there'll be another wave of deaths in days to come if that aid doesn't get through quickly?

TIM COSTELLO: Look, it's certainly possible. The truth is that people are incredibly fearful and in a disorientated state and I understand why. The aftershocks, which have happened every time I'm here, are terrifying. You hear the crows start their shrieking and the dogs barking, you know here it comes - the animals are the early warning system - and that means that this sense of getting back to normalisation, being able to say, "What can we do? Can we get our critically injured on a bike and walk them out?," 'cause helicopters are too few, the weather's against them, the terrain's against them. It's a trekking area, beautiful, but impossible to get to. Thousands of villages are without a helicopter. So that paralysis of fear that just means people are sleeping outside, even if their houses are OK, not passive, silent, fearful, is really one of the big obstacles, Sabra.

SABRA LANE: As you've said, you've visited Gorkha District, one of the worst-affected regions. What were your impressions?

TIM COSTELLO: The first few houses are fine. You say, "Oh, this mustn't be the area." You literally turn a corner, walking in and suddenly 90 per cent of the houses are just utter rubble. Stories of men, 30-year-old men with pregnant wives who've died, but died saving their daughter, bending over their daughter, a five-year-old, and pushing her out. You just get this extraordinary sense of fear and passivity. In some places, to be honest, where we did distributions yesterday, the complications of the fact that there's over 100 ethnic groups here. Some are aligned politically with political parties, obviously lots of criticism of the Government, even from the coalition partner, not even the Opposition. And those ethnicities come and see if other towns have been reached and not them and then they're hostile, if that's happened, which makes our delivery, which has to be transparent and neutral to everybody, whatever their ethnic group, whatever their political affiliation, has to be transparent, that makes it really tricky, because people are angry, they want it to go to their particular group who've missed out. So you have layer on layer of complexity, even culturally, apart from just the terrain and inaccessibility.

SABRA LANE: As you said, there've been riots and protests, people have been venting their frustration at the Government over the slow response to this. Is it beyond the Nepalese Government to deal with the scale of this disaster?

TIM COSTELLO: Look, I think by their own admission, the Nepalese Government have said, "We need help." Look, you can't hide the fact that the co-ordination is really, really bad. They're overwhelmed. I have sympathy for them because any number of foreign powerful national governments have said, "Our citizens who are trekking first," and you imagine as a government under siege trying to deal with powerful friends who are giving aid, but saying, "Our people have to get out." All life is sacred, but, when you're here, Sabra, you have to say if it's Western life, it seems to be a bit more powerful and prioritised than Nepalese life. So, I feel for this government, it's certainly shambolic, it's really tricky. We know there will be another - other earthquakes coming whenever, so we have to actually now get the planning, rebuilding, earthquake-resistant houses rebuilt to avoid another disaster. That's why we're here for the long haul. It's the humanitarian phase, but it's rebuilding better and working with a government to actually get this done.

SABRA LANE: The Australian Government boosted its contribution today. It's giving another $5 million. Nearly a week on from the quake, what would you say is the biggest need right now?

TIM COSTELLO: Well the needs run on parallel tracks, so here is the miracles of some lives being saved two days later. At their wonderful, cultural UNESCO site, Dharahara, the tower that crashed, killing 80, I walked there and now I'm hearing reports that there may still be 20 bodies buried where I was walking, which is a terrible thing to think I and others were doing it. So, then there's the invisibility of so many of the inaccessible villages, thousands of them, that we saw with terrible grief, without food, houses collapsed, destroying the food that always is under the house, needing shelter, tarps, in some places water, which has been compromised. So it's parallel tracks to work at all of these at once in a co-ordinated way, giving what we can in this disaster to the Nepalese Government confidence to lead.

SABRA LANE: The Nepalese Government is talking about resuming climbing on Mount Everest within days as it's struggling to cope with this disaster. It seems a little odd that it's contemplating that.

TIM COSTELLO: Nearly 10 per cent of their GDP comes from tourism and this is a really poor country. That's a matter for them to decide, but you heard my comments that all life is sacred; at the moment, Nepalese life - six days later, we've still pulled two people alive. We haven't got to lots of villages. That's where World Vision's going, that's our priority, Sabra.

SABRA LANE: Tim Costello, thanks for talking with 7.30. Stay safe.

TIM COSTELLO: Thank you.

SABRA LANE: And if you'd like to donate to the rescue effort, you can call 1800 034 034 or go to ABC Appeals where you'll find a list of aid agencies helping with the disaster relief.
</text>