<url>
http://www.morrissuntribune.com/news/local/3735864-impact-nepals-earthquake-felt-morris-community
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Impact of Nepal’s earthquake felt in Morris community
</headline>

<text>
In 2007, Jennifer Rothchild, associate professor of sociology, and her husband, Chris Butler, a teaching specialist at the University of Minnesota, Morris, partnered with Nepali and American friends to co-found Sam’s House, a children’s home in Nepal’s second largest city, Pokhara.

When the 7.9 magnitude quake rocked Nepal last Saturday, April 25, Butler was in Kathmandu doing research on a Fulbright Scholarship. Thanks to social media, Butler was able to reach out to Rothchild shortly after the earthquake hit.

Over the last week, Butler has been providing updates on Facebook about what he is seeing in Kathmandu and how friends around the world can help.

“It seems that things are slowly becoming more calm here,” Butler shared a few days after the earthquake. “As the hours pass, the concern about quakes and tremors is less but now we are thinking about food and preserving water. That being said, we are fine and have many provisions.”

“Now that much of the initial clamor has settled, everyone’s emotions are setting in,” he wrote. “Walking around town, it’s difficult to describe the mix of trauma and tragedy, but also the amazing human compassion that has emerged. Makeshift villages have appeared all over town, people sharing water, helping erect tents, cooking food. People are just so good, really.”

Throughout the week, Butler and Rose Schwietz, a 2013 graduate of UMM currently teaching in Nepal, worked in Kathmandu to collect water purification tablets and drops from people leaving the country that can be redistributed to areas in need.

“Now that the danger of quakes has passed for the most part, now the concern is public health – safe water, food, etc,” Butler wrote in an e-mail. “So we’ve been collecting tabs and taking them to communities along the riverside (slums) where safe water is hard to get. … It’s difficult to describe these settlements except to say that sanitation is a major problem and the houses are situated along huge repositories of garbage.”

The government has yet to assess the full scale of the damage caused by the earthquake. The United Nations estimates that 9 million people in 39 of Nepal’s 75 administrative districts have been affected by the disaster.

According to government officials, the confirmed death toll has exceeded 6,000 people, with nearly 14,000 confirmed as injured.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told Reuters the death toll could reach 10,000, as information of damage from far-flung villages and towns has yet to come in.

Many of these small villages that can only be reached on foot or by helicopter have been completely destroyed, or can’t be reached to provide support because roads are blocked, explained Satis Devkota, assistant professor of economics at UMM.

Devkota is originally from Gorkha, the district at the epicenter of the earthquake. Although his family in the region and in Kathmandu are safe, many areas of that district and other rural districts have been completely flattened.

Like Haiti, which was devastated by an earthquake in 2010, Nepal was already facing social and economic challenges before this natural disaster.

“It’s a tragedy after tragedy, because these places were already suffering from geographical problems, lack of infrastructure and poverty,” said Rothchild. “I think it’s going to get worse before it gets better. The tremors have stopped, but now sickness and scarcity of resources are starting to surge.”

Because of poverty and unemployment, many young adults have left Nepal to find work in other countries. This labor shortage will also hinder efforts to rebuild Nepal, Devkota said.

Fortunately, all of the children and staff at Sam’s House are safe and the home wasn’t damaged in the earthquake. In fact, Rothchild said the house mother and children at Sam’s House have started collecting clothes from around Pokhara to send to Gorkha.

For the next month, all money donated through Sam’s House will be used for earthquake relief in Nepal, funneled to local organizations doing immediate disaster relief.

“The international community needs to work closely with local Nepalis as the needs require,” said Rothchild. “It needs to be in collaboration with people working on the ground.”

With this in mind, Butler and Rothchild will be directing funds to two organizations they know are doing good work on the ground, International Medical Corps (www.internationalmedicalcorps.org) and the International Nepal Fellowship (www.inf.org). Eventually, they hope to support a third organization dedicated to long-term recovery in Nepal.

Butler also said it’s important for residents in the United States to be in contact with legislators and government officials here to help make sure aid continues to reach Nepal. The country won’t be able to recover on it’s own and will need long-term support, he said.

Although Butler was originally scheduled to return to the United States next week, he’s decided to stay in Nepal to help. On Thursday, Butler shared that he will be heading to Gorkha to work with an assessment team from the International Medical Corps.

To make a donation to Sam’s House, visit http://www.samshouse.org/Help/youcanhelp.html.

Sanjeev Miglani and Rupam Jain Nair of Reuters contributed to this story.
</text>