<url>
http://www.theleader.com.au/story/3045025/shire-community-aid-support-for-nepal-clinic/?cs=1003
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Shire community aid support for Nepal clinic
</headline>

<text>
A CLINIC in a remote area of Nepal, established by a former Sutherland resident and largely funded by the Bundeena community, is expected to be overwhelmed with new patients after the recent earthquake.

Bundeena support: Deb Martin-Smith (left), Ria Peterson, Josephine Conrad, Anne Green, Beth Buchanan in traditional Nepalese dress at the Art of Living Festival. Picture: supplied

A CLINIC in a remote area of Nepal, established by a former Sutherland resident and largely funded by the Bundeena community, is expected to be overwhelmed with new patients after the recent earthquake.

More than $40,000 was raised in Bundeena in the past few years for Hope Disability Centre, which treats amputees, children born with club feet and other disfigurements, deafness and burn victims.

Funds pay wages of Nepalese staff, including a full-time physiotherapist and nurse.

A Bundeena resident gave $20,000 from an inheritance to add a second storey to the clinic.

Earthquake aftermath: The Hope Disability Centre will be overwhelmed.

More funds will be raised through a donation box at a book stall at Bundeena markets this Sunday, May 3.

Hope Disability Centre was set up in 2006 as a registered society to support people in Nepal with disabilities, initially in the Gulmi district.

Chairwoman Ganga Rayamajh lost her legs in a kitchen fire as a baby and at 17 was fitted with prosthetics.

A permanent clinic was built in 2009 on donated land in Tamghas, 350 kilometres west of Kathmandu.

It was established by Mobility Equipment For The Needs Of Disabled (MEND) Trust, a non-profit organisation registered in New Zealand 14 years ago by Robert Buchanan, who grew up at Sutherland and spent much of his youth at Bundeena.

The trust's website said it was run mainly by volunteers "on a shoestring [with] no fancy offices, vehicles or big salaries . . .". Mr Buchanan's sisters Beth and Barbara, of Bundeena, are among support group members.

Donations: Red Cross Nepal Earthquake Appeal 2015, 1800 811 700 or donations.redcross.org.au

STILL STANDING



An email from centre director Ganga Rayamajhi:

‘‘We are saddened by the massive and ravaging earthquake that occurred last Saturday. The country is in full tears due to it. The communication was lost completely; this is the reason why I could not be in touch with you all.

‘‘Even though there is a rumour of another massive earthquake within next couple of days we took courage to open the office and try to contact you all.

‘‘Our Hope Disability Centre is in well state except few cracks on the wall and about to finish ramp. There is no harm to staff, relatives and neighbours.

‘‘Minimum of 500 houses have been damaged in Gulmi district; 89 houses completely ravaged, but no casualties reported yet.’’

‘‘The ravaged houses mostly belong to the poor and disabled people. They have nothing left within themselves.

‘‘They have been force to stay and spent their nights in cold and rainy weather.

‘‘Constant downpour is making the life even harder.

‘‘The transportation is completely stopped within the district. There Is scarcity of food and clean drinking water.’’



See story on fund raising dinner at Rockdale on Sunday night.


</text>