<url>
http://www.kplctv.com/story/28946729/mcneese-program-offers-emotional-show-of-support-for-nepalese-students
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
McNeese program offers emotional show of support for Nepalese st - KPLC 7 News, Lake Charles, Louisiana
</headline>

<text>
There was an emotional and moving show of support for students from Nepal Thursday at McNeese.Several hundred people and local community leaders gathered at the program to support of the 78 Nepal students at the university.At the end, everyone participated in a walk around the quad -- most in silence, some carrying signs, they processed in a circle showing unity and support.Those who took part hope to help the students through what is such a heart-wrenching time. It's difficult for the Nepalese students at McNeese to be so far from family and friends who are suffering in the earthquake's aftermath.





Like many others, Nepal Student President Pramesh Regme wishes he could be with his loved ones.





"I am dying inside. The best gift for me right now would be to see my parents. But it is not economical for us all to go home because they're already having scarcity of resources and everything," he said. So people who have already booked their flights are going to Nepal to see their families and so those who cannot go are trying to send supplies and to send support."





For now, the student group is doing what they can to collect donations and show support. Those gathered for Thursday's rally of support at McNeese heard encouraging words from local leaders.





Mayor Randy Roach proclaimed Thursday a day of solidarity between Southwest Louisiana and Nepal.





"These moments remind us of the common humanity of mankind, the common humanity of mankind. We are more alike than we are different. We are alike in what we all seek. We all seek love; we all seek family," Roach said.





Others from Nepal are also working for the cause. Ishwor Nepal is an accountant at New Look furniture. He's headed home Thursday hoping to help.





"A lot of people are displaced. Their houses are all collapsed and they have no food, water or even shelter at this moment.," he said. "But all the aid, humanitarian aid, they're trying to rush in and help all the people they can," he said. "I'm planning to go and meet my immediate family. I'm thinking about taking the...like 50-60 miles away from Kathmandu Valley, and try to help them if any way I can help them."





There are many different ways people can donate money or other support.





For a list of ways to help, check out the KPLC7 news mobile app.




</text>