<url>
http://www.3news.co.nz/nznews/nz-aid-workers-head-to-nepal-2015050207
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
NZ aid workers head to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Two aid workers and an engineer from New Zealand are heading to Nepal to help after the devastating magnitude 7.8 earthquake.

Two New Zealand Red Cross aid workers left for Nepal on Friday (local time) after a call from the organisation's international federation.

Donna Collin, a nurse and midwife from Whangarei, will be carrying out health assessments in villages outside the Kathmandu Valley.

Jacqui Dixon, an aid worker from Morrinsville, will be coordinating Red Cross teams' safety and security across Nepal.

More than 6000 people have died and there is concern for the welfare of hundreds of thousands of people after the earthquake on Saturday.

Those in remote areas outside the Kathmandu Valley are facing an unknown fate.

In some areas 90 percent of the homes have been destroyed, the Red Cross says.

Nepalese-born New Zealand engineer Jitendra Bothara has also left for Nepal.

He is joining a team from Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief Fund, who are global specialists in post earthquake seismic engineering and disaster relief.

The team has experience responding to killer quakes in countries including Haiti, New Zealand, Japan and Italy.

In Nepal they will assist public and international agencies and the private sector in building damage and safety assessment.

"The problem is the building quality and the buildings are extremely, extremely vulnerable," says Mr Bothara who worked on developing a building code for Nepal in the 1990s.

"We have been expecting a big earthquake in the region, the only question was when."

The New Zealand government has pledged $2 million aid.

It has also offered its Urban Search and Rescue team, which is on standby.

1000 EU citizens unaccounted for in Nepal

1000 European Union citizens in Nepal are still unaccounted for, nearly a week after a massive quake that hit during the peak trekking season.

Most were trekking in the remote Langtang mountain range near the epicentre or in the Everest region, EU ambassador Rensje Teerink told journalists in Kathmandu on Friday.

"They are missing but we don't know what their status is," she said.

"Many were in the Langtang area and some were in the Lukla area," she added, referring to the small Himalayan airstrip known as the gateway to Everest.

Another EU official said on condition of anonymity the majority were likely to be found safe and well but that their status was currently unknown given the difficult terrain and lack of access to affected regions.

The 7.8-magnitude quake that hit on Saturday triggered an avalanche at Everest base camp that left 18 people dead on the world's highest peak.

There have also been unconfirmed reports of large avalanches flattening villages in Langtang, a remote region north of Kathmandu that rescuers have struggled to reach.

AFP/ NZN

source: newshub archive
</text>