<url>
http://www.iol.co.za/news/south-africa/sa-aid-workers-provide-relief-in-nepal-1.1852584
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
SA aid workers provide relief in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu -

The South African Gift of the Givers team to Nepal had delays in receiving their supplies but this did not stop them from visiting a few areas around the capital, Kathmandu, on Thursday to assess damage caused by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in preparation for their relief efforts.

Coordinator of the first South African team in the country ravaged by Saturday’s quake - one of the biggest in the country’s history - Dr Ahmed Bham, said the humanitarian group would be focusing on Harisiddhi, a village in Lalitpur district in central Nepal about eight kilometres from Kathmandu where they would help local residents with relief aid supplies such as water, tents and medicine.

Across the world news channels have shown images of whole areas flattened by the earthquake and recorded the desperate attempts of communities to find survivors and retrieve bodies of their loved ones trapped in the rubble. For the team of 40-plus and a group of South African journalists travelling with it, seeing the extent of the damage for themselves was gloomy.

But Gift of the Givers is a team on a mission and they are determined to do all they can while in the country to alleviate the suffering of so many. All around are displaced families, camped out in make-shift shelters, fearful of recurring aftershocks, waiting for help and basic supplies.

Search and rescue member Justin Colbert said yesterday (Thursday) all they could do for the moment was to acquire as much information as possible on those areas the team had chosen to focus on. “Our (job) is to gather a summary of what is happening in these areas before our equipment arrives. Some luggage was left behind in Joburg with other equipment still being brought from Singapore. A cargo plane full of essential supplies is also on its way today (Friday).

“We will not be retrieving any bodies if we come across any because we haven’t been authorised to do so by the Nepalese government,” he said. Rather, what they could do if they detected bodies in the rubble was to leave a maker for local authorities and focus their efforts on the living.

Mother of four, Nina Miya, told reporters it was hard to imagine how they would go on having lost their home and all their possession. But her children, aged four to 16 had survived and they were living now in a tent. But while they may have a place to sleep for now, they don’t have enough water or food and, at the back of her mind, is the risk of another terrifying tremor.

Miya and her family are among tens of thousands of people in areas all across the country whose lives have been devastated by the earthquake and are looking to international teams for immediate help and for whom the South Africans can bring some relief.

Meanwhile, the six medical practitioners who were part of the first South African group had their hands full. Bhorat said the doctors who were based at Kirtipur Hospital in the Kathmandu valley five kilometres from the capital were expected to be joined by a second team of South Africans including trauma specialists today (Friday) .

On its website, Gift of the Givers said it had received a fantastic reception from the Nepalese government although logistics remained a challenge. They have issued a call for help providing tents in particular. Donations can be made to Gift of the Givers. Standard Bank, Pietermaritzburg, account No. 052278611, Branch Code 057525. To find out more, call 0800786911.

Pretoria News
</text>