<url>
http://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/wrexham-trekkers-expected-back-home-9163283
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Wrexham trekkers expected back home from earthquake-hit Nepal after rescue operation
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Three men stranded in earthquake-hit Nepal are expected back in Wales on Saturday.

Trekkers Jason Russell, 28, his brother Darren, 26, and Daniel Hughes, 36, all from Wrexham, had been trapped in a mountain village since the earthquake.

But they were rescued on Thursday and taken to Kathmandu.

The trio had travelled to Nepal to go trekking with the firm Hard Rock Trek in a valley north of Kathmandu.

Om Shahi, who runs the trekking firm, said they will arrive in the UK on Saturday afternoon after being stuck in Tallu village, in the Nuwakot area.

He said: “Last night they arrived in Kathmandu around 9.30pm (4.45pm UK time). They are fine, healthy, in a good condition.”

Related: Welsh fire fighters helping Nepal earthquake rescue efforts describe their gruelling, heart-rending work

Chinooks on way

Meanwhile an RAF Chinook helicopter is expected to leave the UK on Friday to help the aid efforts in Nepal as rescuers continue to hunt for survivors.

More than 6,000 people have been killed in the worst earthquake to hit the country in 80 years, and at least 14,000 have been injured.

Three RAF CH47 Chinook helicopters are being sent to Nepal over the coming days, the first of which should leave RAF Brize Norton aboard a commercial freight plane.

A team of Gurkha engineers arrived in the Himalayan country yesterday aboard a C-17 aircraft, along with 18 tonnes of aid supplies that included shelter kits and solar lanterns.

The Nepal earthquake in pictures:

More than £26m has been raised from public donations to help the appeal - including £5m from the Government - by the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), which is co-ordinating the aid efforts of the UK’s leading charities.

The Government has also pledged £15m, as well as £2.5m to the UN’s Humanitarian Air Service, which will increase helicopter capacity and enable aid to be taken to remote areas.

Food, water, relief supplies and shelter kits are beginning to reach isolated villages affected by Saturday’s earthquake, the DEC said.

Related: Charity set up to help with education in Nepal redirects fundraising

DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said: “Getting the huge amount of essential supplies needed to the hundreds of thousands of people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed quickly is a huge logistical challenge which is being hampered by the limited capacity of the one main airport and extremely difficult terrain in the areas affected.

“Experienced aid teams are working around the clock to get supplies in to the country and then to people who need it. For example agencies have already distributed shelter materials to camps in the Kathmandu Valley and 750 shelter kits will reach remote Dolarka tomorrow. Aid is getting through by any means possible, including by tractor in some cases.

“Fuel shortages, power cuts and communications black outs are all making the delivery of aid more challenging.”

Rescue hopes boosted

Hopes of finding people alive among the demolished buildings in Nepal’s stricken cities and villages were boosted when two people were pulled from the rubble five days after the disaster.

On Thursday dramatic footage showed Nepalese rescuers freeing 15-year-old Pemba Tamang from the debris of a seven-storey building which had collapsed in the capital.

Hours later Krishna Devi Khadka, aged in her 20s, was rescued in an area near Kathmandu’s main bus terminal.

More than 100 Britons, the youngest aged just four months and the eldest in their 60s, returned home to the UK to emotional scenes in the early hours of Thursday morning.

One British dual national killed in the disaster has been named as Hemchandra Rai, a 42-year-old married father-of-three who lived in Hong Kong.

Reports that a Briton was killed at Mount Everest Base Camp continue to be investigated.

Embassy criticised

Criticism has been levelled at the British Embassy in Nepal as families of Britons caught up in the earthquake grew more frustrated over the efforts being made to help their relatives.

Susannah Ross, 20, was trapped in a remote village in Langtang National Park in the north of the country for five days with a group of trekkers.

Her sister Nina Ross, 25, said the family had heard nothing to suggest she had been in contact with the British Embassy or Foreign Office, and branded their help as “useless”.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: “Our teams are working round the clock to assist British nationals and have given practical assistance to more than 300 so far.

“We continue to work closely with the Nepalese search and rescue teams, providing them with all details we have on British nationals and their locations.”
</text>