<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/Citizens-mine-social-media-for-earthquake-relief/articleshow/47127390.cms
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Citizens mine social media for earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
MUMBAI: She goes by 'Solo Girl Backpacker' on social media, Facebooking and tweeting her way through Kerala, Ladakh and Kathmandu. When a massive earthquake hit Nepal on April 25, Shiva Rajvanshi quickly posted a poignant message on Facebook from somewhere near Barpak village, quite close to the epicentre. "We are stuck. I can't contact anyone. So this is my last update," wrote the writer-photographer from Lucknow.As the post popped up on Mumbaikar Netra Parikh's Twitter timeline on Saturday night, she retweeted it like many others. Parikh also called up the Nepal phone number in the message, talked to Rajvanshi, verified her situation, and followed up until the photographer got back the next day to say that she had been rescued by the Nepal army. On Tuesday, Rajvanshi took to Facebook to say, "Finally I am back to India safely. Thanks Indian Air Force and Nepal Army."Many like Parikh are going the extra mile on social media to help those stuck in the aftermath of the Nepal quake find their way home or arrange for essential items. Rashi Vidyasagar, programme officer at TISS, went online looking for a site that sold sanitary napkins in bulk. Leads came her way in the form of names of supermarkets and suggestions to contact distributors of major brands. "During disasters, people send grains and other things, and women are ignored," says Vidyasagar, who is waiting to hear from the NGO Goonj. She is also trying to see whether there could be one collection point in the city to bring together various donation drives so that individual efforts do not clog relief.Her colleague Paras Sharma, programme coordinator of iCall helpline (022-25563291), also deduced from social media that his team of counsellors could be of help. "Though it is not a toll-free number, we have four lines and counsellors. Many on Twitter said those in Nepal could call us, as apps like Viber offered free phone calls."Nepali national and city resident Manoj Tripathi contacted courier companies and airlines on social media to find out how best to send essential commodities. "I was to go home to Pokhra this week, but now I want to spend at least Rs 50,000 to send some water and medicines to remote areas," says Tripathi, a freelance scriptwriter.Tripathi and his friends hope to send the first consignment by Jet Airways in the next couple of days. Airlines operating to Kathmandu have offered free cargo services. "When you contact companies on social media, often they respond positively," he says.
</text>