<url>
http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/contrary-wise/the-journey-of-macchendranath/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
The journey of Macchendranath: Why rebuild Nepal’s architecture
</headline>

<text>
It’s the home of Mount Everest and birthplace of Sita and Buddha. Paradise for hippies, mountaineers, trekkers, gamblers, artefact smugglers, hashish smokers, anthropologists and adventurers, country of kings (until 2006), Maoists and living goddesses, land of mythological races (the kirat, naga, bhote and yaksha) and 102 registered sub-races and ethnicities. So many are unaware that, after Shiva and Buddha, the third most popular god in what was until quite recently the world’s only Hindu nation is a local deity of rain and fertility, the Lord Macchendranath.

Less than a fortnight before earthquake shook Nepal and left a trail of ruin and loss in its wake, its capital Kathmandu had celebrated the much-awaited Seto Macchendranath Yatra, the journey of White Macchendranath. Held each Chaitra, the yatra begins at his seat in Ason Tole, passes through the esplanade, Ratna Park, to Hanumandhoka or Durbar Square of the erstwhile king, now heartbreakingly razed, and ends in Lagantole. It’s a three-day fest.

The Rato Macchendranath Yatra, in contrast, is held every year just before the start of the monsoon season. The oldest and longest festival of Nepal, this chariot carnival is the real deal. The three sister cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Lalitpur come together to host the Red Macchendranath’s Advance; its itinerary begins at Pulchowk, passes through Sundhara and ends in Jwalakhel, all inside the valley.

The last day of the festival is known as the Bhoto Yatra when the high priest aboard the chariot holds aloft a bhoto or a Nepali vest. Legend has it that Karkataka Naga gifted the jewelled vest to a Newari farmer for curing the eye disease of his queen. However, while attending Macchendranath festival, the farmer spotted someone else wearing the vest. A quarrel broke out and the garment was given over to Macchendranath declaring that whoever furnishes proof of ownership would be handed the vest. The quest of the vest has been on ever since.

The seat of Rato Macchendranath is his temple in Patan Durbar Square where he stays for six months. For the remaining year, he is at his birthplace — Bungamati.

All the exquisite pagodas in Patan Durbar Square (save the Krishna temple), Kathmandu Durbar Square or Hanumandhoka and Lalitpur Durbar Square have been levelled in the quake. The temples at Ason and Bungamati, too, have sustained major damages, as have shrines in and around the stupas of Swayambhunath and Boudhanath, the former having mixed Hindu-Buddhist heritage. Information is yet unavailable in the media about the only relatively minor temples of Mankamana, Dakshin Kali, Chhangu Narayan and countless other historical structures and stupas the fate of which almost does not bear thinking of by this writer.

Red or white, scholars posit that Macchendranath was a mortal man, raised to divine status. Some say he was a fisherman’s son from Kamrupa or modern-day Assam, while there are others who believe he was a guru with his ashram at Sandwip or Chandradwip in Bangladesh’s Barisal. Discoverer of first Bengali text Charyapad, Pandit Haraprasad Shastri argues that Macchendranath was in fact poet and Sahajiya tantric Luipa, the first creator of those verses — he also believes he originally belonged to the Nath or weaver caste.

Luipa lived in the ninth and 10th centuries AD. It is said that the Sahajiya Buddhist masters of early-medieval Bengal practised a form of the religion that is a precursor to the Vajrayana Buddhism that travelled to Tibet and elsewhere in later years.

On this intermingling and the genesis of the great Indo-Buddhist tantric tradition, Prof. Robert Thurman of Columbia University has this to say: “The tantric communities of India in the latter half of the first Common Era millennium (and perhaps even earlier), [like the Shakti-worshipping Kapalikas, for instance, or the Shaivite Nagas] were something like institutes of advanced studies in relation to the great Buddhist monastic universities. They were research centres for highly cultivated, successfully graduated experts in various branches of inner science (adhyatmavidya), many of whom were living in the classical Indian saiñnyãsin or sãdhu style. I call them the psychonauts of the tradition, in parallel with our astronauts, the materialist scientist-adventurers whom we admire for their courageous explorations of the outer space which we consider the matrix of material reality. Inverse astronauts, the psychonauts voyaged deep into inner space, encountering and conquering angels and demons in the depths of their subconscious minds.”

Guru Macchendranath, himself, is stated by other certified sources to have been the founder of the Hindu Shaivaite Nath line of masters and, along with chief disciple Gorakhnath, the founder of Hatha Yoga. He is variously known as a worshipper of Shiva and/or Dattatreya, himself a demi-god and Shiva follower, later appropriated by Vaishnavites as an incarnation of Trimurti, but primarily that of the Preserver. But while Dattatreya is regarded as a benevolent deity rather than a saint, Macchendranath’s godly status is confined to Nepal. In India, awareness about him is limited though he has shrines — in Sangli, Mangalore, Aurangabad, Ujjain, Beed, Sindhudurg and Amravati — to his name.

The Nath yogi caste, meanwhile, is somewhat of an enigma, especially in Bengal, because they are thought to be unconsciously Buddhist by some scholars and are historical opponents of caste untouchability and were hence demoted down the caste hierarchy by Raja Ballal Sen in the 12th century. It was then that they took up weaving to sustain themselves. It all gives credence to Shastri’s theory about the Sahajiya Buddhist identity of the saint.

Fittingly, therefore, the Nepali god Macchendranath has more Buddhist interpretations. He is revered among followers of that religion as an avatar of Avlokiteswara, a bodhisatva who embodies the compassion of Buddha. In Nepal, Hinduism is syncretic with Buddhism. Here Saraswati becomes the consort of Manjushri, the bodhisatva of wisdom, who is worshipped side by side with her. Swayambhunath becomes Adi Buddha.

How did Macchendranath become the nature god of rain, and fertility, of rivers overflowing with fish and harvested grain? The legend says that Guru Gorakhnath was the first to arrive in the valley (his temple above Pashupatinath is the highest point of the hill complex). Spurned by the residents of Patan when he sought alms, an angry Gorakh is supposed to have captured all the rain bearing serpents, causing drought in the valley. The king of Patan then invited Macchendranath on the advice of his ministers. Upon learning his teacher was in the valley, Gorakh released all the serpents and went to see him. “Jay Macchinder, Gorakh aaya. Jay Macchinder, Gorakh aaya,” beat the mridangam.

That year, there was plenty of rain and the rivers overflowed with fish while the fields were aburst with grain. Macchendranath began to be worshipped as the god of rain in Kathmandu from then on.

How important is it to rebuild the shrines and stupas, shikharas and pagodas of the valley? The survival of Nepal’s rich and diverse and, indeed, uniquely special history and heritage hinges on this exercise. The monuments were all standing until last week, so there is no dearth of evidence required for restoration. And there is precedence — of Bhimsen Tower or Dharahara being rebuilt twice and the Patan Durbar Square being raised again from scratch after 1934’s devastating earthquake. The castes of traditional builders and craftsmen in the valley are extant and in even greater need of sustenance and employment post-disaster. Will the people of Nepal rise to the occasion?
</text>