<url>
http://www.shreveporttimes.com/story/news/local/louisiana/2015/05/01/louisiana-artists-nepal-rescued-earthquake/26692101/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Louisianians describe rescue after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Team members from German Search and Rescue Team Fire Search and Rescue' (right) and British charity Search And Rescue Assistance in Disasters ( use a sniffer dog to look for bodies in a collapsed building in Kathmandu, Nepal, 29 April 2015. The number of people killed in the earthquake in Nepal passes 5,000, according to official figures. (Photo: Wire photo)

A group of northeastern Louisiana artists traveling in Nepal when Saturday’s earthquake rocked the country has been rescued, relocated and is awaiting transport home.

“I’m so excited,” Monroe native Katie Beth Miksa said early Thursday minutes after getting word that her parents, part of the tour group, were on a helicopter en route to a hotel.

Jan Quiet, Rudy and Susan Miksa of Monroe, and M. Douglas Walton of Ruston are part of a group of traveling artists, 11 Americans and four Canadians along with three Nepalese, visiting the area as part of “Journey Encounter Nepal and Tibet.”

Katie Beth Miksa said several members of the group with more immediate medical or emotional needs had been transported earlier from an initial gathering spot while others, her parents included, opted to wait for transport later.

“They’re both outdoor people and experienced travelers,” she said. “So I definitely had faith that they would make it through and am not at all surprised that they would elect to be in the second group rescued.”

The group of Americans and Canadians was rescued from a rice terrace where Katie Beth Miksa said there were about 4,000 people awaiting rescue.

Miksa, who is a student at Wesley Theological Seminary in Washington and the American University School of International Service, talked to her mother by phone midmorning Thursday.

“She was in excellent spirits and even making jokes about the ‘five minute walk’ to the hotel which wound up being an hour trek that included crossing barbed wire, jumping across giant fissures, hitch-hiking, which ended with a flat tire, and an eventual safe arrival at the hotel,” Katie Beth Miksa said.

Although the U.S. government is working with the American Embassy to return all Americans and Canadians home as soon as possible, Miksa said the tour group still has its original tickets to return home on May 6 on a commercial airline.

U.S. Rep. Ralph Abraham, M.D., R-Alto, released the following statement in reference to the recently rescued group of Americans who were stranded in Nepal.

“I’m overjoyed that this group will be coming home safely,” he said. “They’ve survived a harrowing ordeal, and I know they’re ready to get back to Louisiana and see their families. I would ask that everybody keep Nepal in your prayers because thousands of people are hurting right now,” Abraham said.

Walton was the trip’s organizer. His Ruston assistant, Marlen Waters, said there are Americans from Colorado, Texas, Florida and Louisiana on the trip.

According to Miksa, Walton would like to stay in Kathmandu at least a couple more days to “draw the chaotic scenes of Kathmandu.”

According to U.S. Sen. David Vitter’s, R-La., office, other U.S. citizens in the group include: Jaye Catherine Clare, Colorado; Steven Leslie Kurtz, Florida; Janis Carolyn Kurtz, Florida; Jo Anne Long, Florida; and Beverly Brooks Brown, Alabama.

Vitter’s office reported the senator had been in contact with the U.S. State Department, U.S. Embassy in Nepal, Red Cross, U.S. Pacific Command and U.S. AID to assist in making contact with the U.S. citizens.

Both Vitter and Abraham spoke Thursday with Walton, who confirmed that all of the Americans with the group were safe at the hotel and in good spirits.

“Giant cracks, shifting soil and mini-rock slides are all still happening and complicating rescue efforts both inside and outside urban areas,” Katie Beth Miksa said. “There are still thousands in need of aid, so they (the group) hope that everyone will stay mindful of the situation in Nepal even as it transitions out of headline news.”

Read or Share this story: http://www.shreveporttimes.com/story/news/local/louisiana/2015/05/01/louisiana-artists-nepal-rescued-earthquake/26692101/
</text>