<url>
http://www.cdispatch.com/news/article.asp?aid=41711
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Community unites for Nepal at MUW candlelight vigil
</headline>

<text>
About 100 candles lit up the area around the Bryan Green Gazebo on Mississippi University for Women's campus Thursday night as students, faculty and Columbus community members held a candlelight vigil to honor the country of Nepal, which suffered a 7.8 magnitude earthquake Saturday.

MUW is home to over 30 students from Nepal. Many have family members who were affected in the earthquake. Mississippi State University has 39 students from Nepal.

Shristi Khati, a junior studying biology and public health, is from southern Nepal but grew up in the capital, Kathmandu -- one of the areas hardest hit by the earthquake. Her parents were safe in southern Nepal, but her younger brother was staying with relatives in the capital.

"They lost their houses and they had to stay like three, four days in tents," Khati said.

She added that she finally got to speak to her brother three days after the earthquake hit. Her brother has since left the capital and reunited with his parents.

Khati said she was hopeful the people of Nepal would get financial and emotional support from the rest of the world.

"We all are together," Khati said. "They're not alone."

'I was about to cry'

About 100 people gathered at the vigil. On the sidewalk, an outline of Nepal had been drawn with chalk, and the words "We are together" were written in the middle.

As the ceremony began, several Nepali students formally thanked those gathered at the vigil, the MUW community and the people of Columbus for their support. University president Jim Borsig also spoke.

"It's already been said better than I can say that those students that are standing to my right, they're going to rebuild Nepal, and we're going to be right there with you helping you," Borsig said.

Following prayers, those gathered laid their candles around the outline of Nepal. The country's shape glowed in the darkness. A jar was laid on the sidewalk so that people could make donations. As the ceremony ended, people began to mill around, hugging their friends and promising to stand with the Nepali students as they help their families.

"I was about to cry," said Nava Subedi, a graduate student from Mississippi State University.

Subedi learned about the earthquake when he woke Saturday and found his wife crying as she listened to the news. The couple were worried for their 3-year-old son, who lives in Nepal with his grandparents. Later they were able to call their families.

Subedi lived in Kathmandu.

He said the images coming in from Nepal showed a situation worse than he could have imagined, as the number of those dead keeps climbing.

"I'm pretty sure the number will be more than 10,000," he said.

Still, Subedi said he was thankful that the earthquake had not hit at night. He, like all the other Nepali students, made a point to thank The W and all who attended the vigil.

"Thanks for praying for us," said Nikesh Acharya.

Suvechhya Shrestha, who is graduating next week, is from Kathmandu, where she says most of the houses were crushed to rubble. It has been difficult for her to see images from her hometown.

"I don't know how I'll react if I go home," she said. "It won't be the same."

She talked about the World Heritage sites that have been destroyed in the city.

"It's not there," she said. "The history, the landmarks we take pride in -- it's not there."

Despite the overwhelming destruction, Shrestha mainly talked about how proud she was of her country and how grateful she was to everyone who has offered them aid, from world governments to the people at MUW who showed up to the candlelight vigil. She and Sumitra Karki, the president of International Student Association at MUW, both expressed how happy they were that they were in Columbus where the community has not only been helpful since the earthquake struck, but since they arrived here to study. They called MUW their "second home."

Neither student knows whether they will return to Nepal this summer. What the country needs right now, they said, is monetary funds and other necessities that the students can send them from the U.S. Both women said they would like to return home, but now was the time to be realistic, not emotional.

Ways you can help

■ The International Student Association and the Nepali Student Association at MUW have set up boxes across campus where individuals can donate clothing, blankets, toiletries, non perishable food items and other items to be sent to Nepal. The students have also set up a special Cadence Bank account to go toward non-profits helping to aid rural areas of Nepal. Those wishing to put money in the account can go to any local Cadence branch and ask to donate to the earthquake relief fund.

Anyone in the community who would like to help can contact Simmons at International Student Services at 662-241-6138.

Tonight, the Mississippi State Nepalese Student Association will hold a candlelight vigil from 7:30-8:30 p.m. at the Drill Field on the MSU campus.
</text>