<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/indiahome/indianews/article-3064702/Disaster-selfies-tourists-turned-reliefworkers-saviours-sky-Stories-heroism-tragedy-aftermath-Nepal-s-killer-earthquake.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Disaster selfies, treasure scavengers and saviours from the sky: Stories of heroism and tragedy in the aftermath of Nepal's killer earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Among the toughest things to do after an earthquake is to sleep.

That’s because tremors start messing with your mind.

Often in the night you wake up with a start when you feel the floor shake violently.

Indian National Disaster Response Force and Nepal Police during rescue operations as they remove debris in Kathmandu

After that you are subconsciously looking out for the next temblor.

When you stretch your body you feel a tremor only to realise that it’s your mind that was quaking.

And sometimes you feel nothing, but see those around you rush out of the building for safety.

That’s when you decide it’s safest to stay awake.

TOURISTS TURN INTO RELIEF WORKERS

Several foreign tourists fled Kathmandu in the first 48 hours after the killer quake.

But many have chosen to stay back to help with the relief efforts.

What were earlier trekking expeditions have got converted into humanitarian missions with hundreds of tourists signing up as volunteers with international and local NGOs.

I asked Rick Altos from the United States whether he was scared he may get caught in another quake.

His reply, ‘Honestly, I’m more scared of being run over by the unruly traffic in Kathmandu.’

TREASURE HUNTERS STRIKE

The UNESCO World Heritage site of Durbar Square in Kathmandu has been reduced to rubble.

Buried in the debris are beautiful statues and intricate wood carvings of the many ancient temples, which are worth a fortune at auctions in the West.

At a time when the Nepalese Army and police are busy in rescue and relief operations, thieves are having a field day foraging through the ruins.

Locals managed to catch a gang of thieves in the act.

Security has since been beefed up in the area.

But given the increasing law-and-order problems across the country, it is impossible for the police to guard the debris 24/7.

Many of Nepal’s ancient treasures could be lost forever.

A Nepalese woman eans on her crutches as she looks at the remains of her home in Kathmandu

ROUTE AID THROUGH THE GOVERNMENT

Many people have been shocked by the images of devastation beaming in on their television screens and have been calling to ask how they can help.

The most effective way to help people in Nepal is to route whatever relief material you wish to send through government agencies.

The government in Nepal has asked all private NGOs to stay away and all help is only being distributed by the Nepalese Army.

The problem with private aid is that most of the NGOs are ending up only at those towns and villages which are most easily accessible.

This is leading to duplication of effort in some places and no help reaching those who need it the most.

Also, at a time when anger is building and the frustration of quake victims is growing, it is not safe to try and distribute aid privately. This reporter saw hungry and thirsty quake victims attack and loot a private relief truck.

The government may be slow and inefficient but it is still your best bet for a good cause at this time.

INDIA VS CHINA AND PAKISTAN

With the Modi government going all out to help the people of Nepal in this hour of crisis, India’s friends in the neighbourhood are feeling the pinch.

China and Pakistan complained to the Nepalese government that the Modi sarkar was more interested in self-promotion than in genuinely helping the Nepali people.

Reporters accompanying Indian relief helicopter missions were cited as an example of Indian aggrandisement.

Much to the dismay of Indian hacks the Nepali government then barred journalists from accompanying relief helicopters.

The concerned Army and Air Force officers tried to explain that they were willing to carry Nepali, Pakistani and Chinese journalists so that the world could see how bad the situation was.

After a 24-hour deadlock better sense prevailed and now even international journalists are accompanying Indian Air Force’s rescue helicopters to far flung areas of the quake-ravaged country.

WHAT ARE YOU DOING ON A RESCUE SORTIE?

At a time when journalists are being labelled Presstitutes by senior BJP ministers, social media has been asking journalists why were they occupying space on rescue sorties and why not let the Air Force rescue more victims instead.

The charge needs to be answered.

Journalists are not accompanying helicopters that are going to high altitudes on rescue missions.

Hacks are only being sent on transport helicopters that are ferrying relief material.

The copter is first loaded with all the relief material that needs to be taken to a particular area and then liaison officers assess whether the cargo’s weight allows for extra passengers to be taken on board.

It’s only after all the operational requirements have been met that journalists are allowed to board a relief sortie.

NEPALESE ARMY WINS HEARTS

For decades the over-one-lakhstrong Nepalese Army was seen by the people as puppets of the King.

But the exemplary effort and selflessness of soldiers during the post-quake rescue and relief efforts has won the hearts of many across the country.

While the Nepali Congress Party government of Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has come in for heavy criticism from the people for its sloth, the Army is drawing high praise.

Army men have helped cleared blocked roads, accompanied relief trucks and even swept the debris lying on the streets.

Each person being pulled out alive by the Nepalese Army is being wildly cheered by the people.

THE OTHER FACE OF THE RSS

The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is seen by many in India as a communal and divisive force.

But Nepal saw the humanitarian face of the RSS in the post-earthquake relief operations.

About 1,000 swayamsevaks have been working round the clock since last Saturday.

The RSS set up a special helpline at its Kathmandu headquarters at Keshab Dham within three hours of the quake.

The helpline has received over 10,000 calls from all over the world and volunteers claim to have helped connect 6,000 people with their families.

Leading the RSS’s charge at ground zero is Dattatreya Hosabale, the ‘number two’ man in the Sangh hierarchy.

And contrary to public perception about the RSS, volunteers have been helping Christians, Buddhists and Muslims too without discriminating on the basis of religion.

Injured Nepalese are treated by Israeli medics at the Israeli field hospital in Kathmandu

TROUSSEAU HUNTING AMID DEBRIS

Amidst the debris, the cycle of life peddles on. Wedding preparations were on in full swing at the homes of Narayan Tiwari and Amrita Nepal in the Sindhupalchok district, when the earthquake struck on Saturday.

Both their houses were badly damaged and they were forced to sleep out in the open for the next four days.

But earthquake, aftershocks and incessant rainfall could not stop Narayan from tying the knot with his beloved.

The wedding wasn’t quite the lavish affair that Amrita had been dreaming of. She had to hunt for her trousseau amid the debris.

Luckily she found her wedding saree. Narayan wasn’t so lucky.

He got hitched in his shirt and jeans. The couple camped in a make-shift tent on their wedding night.

DISASTER SELFIES

With the tremors now reducing in their frequency and intensity, the residents in Kathmandu are gingerly walking around taking stock of the damage.

The Dharahara Tower which was first built in 1882 and suffered heavy damage during the quake has become the busiest ‘disaster tourism’ destination.

Thousands flocked to see the tower which has been cut off in the middle. A selfie-obsessed generation could not resist the temptation of capturing their mugs amidst the ruins.

Many were seen walking around with their helmets on, just in case the sky came falling on their head yet again.

FEAR BREEDS PARANOIA

As you walk around the streets of Kathmandu you see dozens of people walking around with masks on their faces.

When you ask them why, they say friends have sent them WhatsApp messages, saying that a mass epidemic has struck Nepal after the quake.

Sundry ‘Babas’ too are fuelling the paranoia making wild predictions of another bigger earthquake which is supposed to be on its way.

With fear breeding paranoia, no one is stopping to ask why these super perceptive babas were not able to predict the earthquake when it first struck.

The Koirala government has now announced it will come down hard on those who indulge in rumour-mongering.

TAKES MORE THAN DETERMINATION

Led by their Director General O.P, Singh, 10 teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been doing a stellar job looking for life amid the ruins.

These teams have penetration radars, sniffer dogs and tonnes of determination. What they don’t have is the latest technology which is available with the French and American rescue teams.

The international rescue teams have equipment which allows them to pick up even the faintest signs of life.

This gives them a precise sense of where they need to drill, which is also why the French and the Americans have been able to pull out many more people alive from the debris than anybody else.

The Modi sarkar should immediately procure the same equipment for the NDRF boys as well, so that they have more to rely on than dogged determination.

SAVIOURS FROM THE SKY

Pilots of the Indian Air Force have been assigned the toughest flight paths by the Kathmandu control centre.

Despite the absence of proper helipads and braving inclement weather, IAF helicopter pilots have been carrying tonnes of equipment to the most affected areas.

On the first such sortie in the Dhading area, IAF pilots distributed all the relief material that they had been carrying. But many victims did not get any relief and were starting to get desperate.

Without any hesitation, Wing Commander Amit Sood asked his navigator to leave behind the food that had been packed for the crew, reflecting the selfless spirit of the Indian armed forces.

LEARN FROM THE FOREIGNERS

While the Indian government had mounted by far the largest relief and rescue operation in Kathmandu, it was Indian citizens who were getting most angry with their government.

There was sloganeering at the airport and passengers heckled the Air Force and airline staff who were running the rescue sorties.

Indian tourists should learn from the foreigners who were calmly queuing up, waiting for their turn to be rescued.

Patience is a key virtue in times of crisis.

Indian doctors paint a grim scene in Nepal

By Neetu Chandra Sharma

Though life in Nepal is limping back to normal after the earthquake, healthcare facilities still remain a challenge due to dearth of specialist doctors.

“Conditions here are really bad. We have spoken to the Nepal’s health minister who said he was looking up to specialist doctors from India. As the healthcare infrastructure has been paralysed here, treating patients is a problem because medical equipment is difficult to find.

"As hospital buildings have broken, they have even shifted the operation theatres into tents while surgeries are being done in the open,” said Dr Ashok Gupta, head of plastic surgery department, Bombay Hospital and who is in Nepal on behalf of the India Medical Association.

The healthcare infrastructure has been left paralysed after the earthquake even as life slowly gets back to normal in Nepal

“Many people who survived the earthquake might have died due to non-availability of medical treatment. We will airlift critical patients to India if they can get treatment here,” he said.

A rapid assessment of healthcare facilities by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Ministry of Health and Population has found that hospitals in four of the worst-affected districts are completely destroyed or too badly damaged to function.

Five other major hospitals, providing healthcare in the districts, were found to be functioning but urgently in need of medical supplies.

“WHO staff have been working round the clock,” said WHO’s Country Representative for Nepal Dr Lin Aung.

“This information will be vital in guiding the short-to medium-term response by national and international healthcare providers, determining where to move health teams and supplies in Nepal.”

Teams visited 21 hospitals in 12 of the districts most severely impacted by the April 25 temblor to gather information and found 17 hospitals were still operational.

Many hospitals told the assessment teams that they were experiencing a shortage of supplies.
</text>