<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/prime-minister-emphasises-10-tasks-dealing-earthquake-disaster-nepal-royal-thai-embassy
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Prime Minister emphasises 10 tasks for dealing with the earthquake disaster in Nepal to the Royal Thai Embassy in Kathmandu via video conference
</headline>

<text>
The Royal Thai Embassy in Kathmandu reported that the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal has caused more than 5,000 casualties, injured at least 12,000 people, and more than 280,000 people have no shelter. The impact of the earthquake affected 39 districts out of 75 districts in Nepal. Water, food, medication, and especially tents and blankets are in great demand as victims choose to stay in opened-space and are afraid of moving into buildings. The Royal Thai Embassy also reported that 83 Thai citizens in Nepal have returned to Thailand, and 14 more Thai citizens are currently being transported back.

Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) emphasized 10 tasks to the rescue team in proceeding with the relief efforts in Nepal. The tasks are as follows:

1). To assess and provide assistance with airport operations as well as coordinating relief at the airport.

2). To find ways to dispatch the items to all affected areas effectively.

3). To be aware of epidemics that could happen during the recovery period. The rescue team should assess what kind of medication and medical assistance are needed while reporting back to the government to arrange further assistance.

4). To provide communication assistance to Nepal so that all relief effort divisions can collaborate effectively and to find appropriate communication channels within the Thai rescue team.

5). To assess what safety and other necessary equipment are needed for search and rescue teams (e.g. personnel, gloves, lifting equipments) to aid the teams in the operation of finding survivors.

6). To find ways to set up water transportation system from nearby locations so that drinking and bathing water can be delivered to the affected areas.

7). To arrange relief items such as clothing and apparel to the victims.

8). To provide survival equipments such as tent, inflatable air beds and slippers.

9). To provide food supplies. Recently, Thailand has sent out instant food for temporary relief, however we are currently looking for ways to provide long-term relief to the victims including the sending of polished rice to Nepal.

10). To investigate alternative transport mechanisms in which supplies can be sent out besides air transportation.

The Prime Minister conveyed his appreciation to the Royal Thai Embassy and the rescue team for their commitment in providing humanitarian assistance. The Prime Minister also emphasized that safety of the Thai personnel is utmost important, and asked that the Royal Thai Embassy report back to Government, so that further assistance can be arranged.
</text>