<url>
http://www.timescall.com/longmont-local-news/ci_28023796/longmont-residents-rushing-aid-rural-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Longmont residents rushing aid to rural Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Bob Nielsen and Randy Baker get emotional as they talk about the damage to Kumari, a village district in Nepal, their nonprofit Health & Ed 4 Nepal Inc., helps to support on Thursday in Longmont. (Matthew Jonas / Staff Photographer)

Since Saturday's massive earthquake in Nepal, Longmont residents Randy Baker and Bob Nielsen's lives have been filled with questions.

Are there tents available? How many tents? How do we get them there? How much money do you need? Can you get the helicopter? How many doctors are going? How will they get there? What do they need? What can we send?

Baker and Nielsen co-founded Health & Ed 4 Nepal Inc., a nonprofit that, since 2007, has worked with Nepali trekking guide Jagat Lama to build a medical clinic, electricity infrastructure, a road, school, library and homes in Kumari.

Kumari is a large village district about nine hours' walking distance northwest of Kathmandu, closer to the epicenter of the earthquake than the country's capital city.

The people there, Baker and Nielsen said, are from the Tamang tribe, considered the lowest caste in Nepal, and are discriminated against. They live in 15th-century conditions, Baker said, in basic adobe homes.

Over the years, Health & Ed 4 Nepal has grown to five members stateside. They built a women's training center and were planning to start a microloan program. A nurse and a mid-wife were training at the Kumari Medical Clinic and Meagan Cain, a master's student at the University of Northern Colorado was preparing to go and teach Kumari people about hygiene.

Now, after the earthquake, Baker and Nielsen say much of their work is rubble. They showed Facebook photos of Lama's decimated childhood home, where a physician's assistant working at the clinic was also staying.

"I don't know if it's morning or night, it seems like it's been a month since last Saturday," Baker said. "It's this whole thing we've built, well, until the earthquake happened. The earthquake was discouraging to me... But then I thought 'It took an earthquake to stop us' and it didn't even stop us, we're just entering a new gear."

They have a lot of work ahead of them. The road to the clinic is now blocked and all of the homes are damaged. The clinic that was serving a population of 60,000 Kumari people has large cracks in the walls and one wall missing entirely. Medicine bottles lie smashed on the clinic's floor.

"We talked to a lab tech (who works at the clinic) and we said 'Are you safe?' and he says 'Yes, but we have no home, we've been sitting here in this field in the rain, wet and hungry,'" Nielsen said as Baker added that many people are afraid to reenter any remaining buildings because of earthquake aftershocks.

Baker posted photos and information from their clinic staff on the nonprofit's Facebook page.

"Everything damaged. We lost our hospital and all equipment. All people are living in open sky. It's been 3 days (since) hitting my earthquake and heavy rain and landslide here," wrote clinic staffmember Ellen, while she was in Kathmandu to solicit aid for Kumari.

Photos of the earthquake damaged hospital in Kumari. (Courtesy of Health & Ed 4 Nepal)

Lama, the man who inspired Baker and Nielsen to start the nonprofit, is living in a tent with his wife and 20-month-old son, Nielsen said before he was overcome with emotion and could not continue.

Health & Ed 4 Nepal and Lama's sister organization on the ground there, Health and Education for Nepal, are both working fervently to get aid to the Kumari people. Neither Baker nor Nielsen believe any of the assistance flowing through the Nepali government or large aid organizations will reach Kumari.

"These people are the lowest castes in this society and they have been marginalized for years," Baker said. "In the past, aid has never made it there and we don't think there's any reason it would now."

Action plan

Nielsen and Lama had a short conversation via instant messaging Thursday morning, Colorado time, and Lama said they need at least 5,000 tents and 10,000 blankets as well as rice, lentils, kerosene and sugar.

The U.S. nonprofit raised $25,000 and sent it to Lama on Wednesday with instructions he could use it to buy whatever he needed on the ground to get the people through the next day, but they weren't sure if there were any banks open. While talking with the Times-Call, Baker delivered the news to Nielsen that someone on the ground in Nepal had confirmed that tents were available for sale in the country and Nielsen seemed to visibly relax a little.

"OK, good, so we can buy them there," Nielsen said.

Photos of the damage to Jagat Lama's childhood home in the Kumari. (Courtesy of Health & Ed 4 Nepal)

The nonprofits are working on raising money primarily, because supplies are hard to transport to Kumari and are usually cheaper in Nepal than the United States. Monetary donations can be submitted at gofundme.com/t5j8aw. A donor is matching $1 for every $2.50 donated through May 25.

The five-person Health & Ed 4 Nepal team are also working to coordinate medical volunteers who are traveling into the region. Sue Ferrier, a Lafayette-based member of the nonprofit, delivered the news while Baker and Nielsen were talking with The Times-Call that a team of three to five medical doctors were being helicoptered into the Kumari region within the next three or four days.

Ferrier — like Lama, Baker and Nielsen — has been working almost nonstop since the earthquake hit.

"We got the video on the gofundme page and we smoothed out some issues we were having with gofundme and then, goodness my phone has just been blowing up with Facebook notifications, calls, travel arrangements," Ferrier said. "I feel like I've got the tail of a tiger, it's all moving so fast."

Nielsen and his wife, Gay Nielsen, left Thursday to drive to Utah to connect with other aid organizations and with Lama's daughter, who is studying in the United States. Cain is going ahead with her trip to the Kumari region in May, but her efforts will be refocused from hygiene education to communicating to the U.S. team what the Kumari need immediately.

Baker said that Health & Ed 4 Nepal wants to help the Kumari region to recover from the earthquake but on long-term projects as well.

"We won't forget the people of the Kumari," Baker said, his voice rising and cracking as he was overcome with emotion. "We will be there six months from now and six years from now."

To help Nepal

Health & Ed 4 Nepal

What: Monetary donations

For: Rural Kumari region

How: Onlne at gofundme.com/t5j8aw or send a check to Health & Ed 4 Nepal, 1531 Cambridge Dr., Longmont 80503

Planet Med Nepal

What: Dinner fundraiser, full buffet meal

Who: Owners of Tibetian restaurant Kandu and Pasang Sherpa

For: Phakding village and the Planet Med Nepal organization

Where: Tibet's Restaurant in Louisville, 321 S. McCaslin Blvd, Ste A

When: May 11, 5:20 to 8:30 p.m.

Cost: $25 or $10 and a used tent or sleeping bag

More info: gofundme.com/t5czj2a

iDE vigil

What: musical prayer, candlelight vigil, video updates, reflection and fundraiser

Who: International nonprofit iDE

For: iDE's recovery efforts in Nepal

Where: First floor of Posner Center, 1031 33rd St, Denver

When: Saturday, May 2, 6 to 8 p.m.

More info: http://www.idenepal.org/

Developing Hands

What: Monetary donations

Who: Developing Hands board members, who will deliver donations personally

For: School in Mankha, an outlying village

How: developinghands.org/helpnepal/

#WeHelpNepal

What: Monetary donations

Who: We Help Nepal, a group of current and former Nepal residents

For: Small to medium-sized organizations on the ground in Nepal and long-term resiliency

How: gri.nationbuilder.com/contribute

Karen Antonacci: 303-684-5226, antonaccik@times-call.com or twitter.com/ktonacci
</text>