<url>
http://www.cdispatch.com/opinions/article.asp?aid=41715
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Our View: Nepal: In a small world, the obligation looms large
</headline>

<text>
The world is much smaller than it used to be.

Six days ago, a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the small nation of Nepal. To date, it has claimed the lives of 6,200 people. That number is likely to grow as rescue workers try to navigate the remote, mountainous regions of a country whose population is far from concentrated (in a country of more than 30 million people, it's largest city, Kathmandu, has 1.1 million and there are no other cities of more than 200,000 people).

Had this event happened 40 years ago, what we would learned about the event would be limited and, while we certainly would have had sympathy for the suffering of this small country that occupies a small swath of land between India and China more than 8,000 miles away, we would likely have felt no personal connection.

But in the small world we live in, the tragic event seems far more personal and for reasons that go beyond the access to 24/7 news coverage. We not only see the suffering from those images from far, far away, we also see it in the faces and hear it in the voices right here in our own community. Nepalese students attend both Mississippi State University and Mississippi University for Women.

In fact, at The W, the 34 Nepalese students are the largest group of international students on campus. There are other Nepalese among us, including the manager of the Columbus Hyatt Pace, Shailee Rajbhandari, who lost family members in the tragedy.

Where once, we might have considered this an unfortunate event in some far-flung corner of a world we are moved to grieve alongside the Nepalese we encounter in our every-day life. We can relate to their pain, we commiserate, we worry, we wonder what can be done, what we can do. It is personal.

Thursday evening, MUW held at candlelight vigil for the victims of the earthquake, many of whom are family members of our students here. Tonight at 7:30 on the Drill Field, MSU will hold a similar service. The events were organized not only for a chance to come together and support each other, but to provide information on how we all can help.

The Nepalese student organizations at both campuses have organized relief program, collecting clothing other needed items as well as collecting money, which is something that is vital to the staggering recovery effort that faces the country. Those who wish to donate to that cause can make a donation at any local Cadence Bank branch.

Nepal faces enormous challenges, not only the immediate urgent need for money and supplies to deal with the rescue and recovery, but the long-term challenge of rebuilding infrastructure, housing, roads and economy. The latter will require a large-scale investment by the international community.

Individually, we can do little to help. But the good news is that we can make a profound difference in the most immediate need. Every dollar we contribute can ease the suffering of thousands of people 8,000 miles away and bring hope to the Nepalese we know right here.

The world is smaller now and our obligations are larger. Mississippians have always answered the call.

We urge everyone to meet that obligation with a donation to the Nepal relief efforts.
</text>