<url>
http://www.gazettenet.com/news/colleges/umassamherst/16693794-95/nepali-students-in-valley-band-together-for-support
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
NORTHAMPTON — Smith College senior Pratistha Bhattarai was having a Skype conversation with her parents in Kathmandu, Nepal, when Saturday’s
</headline>

<text>
Nepali students in Valley band together for support

NORTHAMPTON — Smith College senior Pratistha Bhattarai was having a Skype conversation with her parents in Kathmandu, Nepal, when Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake caused them to flee their home.



Bhattarai, 22, stayed glued to her screen for 40 minutes waiting for her parents to come back. What she heard instead were rumblings of the ground shaking, items falling off the shelves of her family’s home and voices coming from the streets outside.



“I could hear voices from the neighborhood, people were talking and consoling each other, trying to make sense of what happened,” she said Tuesday.



She and other Nepalese residents of the Valley have likewise found consolation by banding together. Bhattarai was among several organizers of a Smith College vigil held Tuesday at 7 p.m. Other vigils organized by Nepalese students were held Sunday at Mount Holyoke College and Tuesday at Hampshire College. Another such vigil will be held at the University of Massachusetts Amherst at 7 p.m. Thursday.



Bhattarai thought she would leave Skype open until the event passed, but ramifications of the earthquake, which media reports have estimated caused more than 5,000 deaths so far and the destruction of entire villages in Nepal, have continued and will continue for a long time, she said.



Her parents, who she later learned escaped unharmed, left in what she described as “panic mode.” Babies cried, and there was a lot of noise, but there was also some laughter, with people trying to use humor to comfort each other, she said.



She summed up the feeling with an anecdote repeated to her by a friend still in Nepal, who overheard a conversation between mother and child.



“The mom would explain to the child, the Earth was making them dance because they don’t dance enough,” she said. “That was something my mom would also say.”



Fellow Nepalese student Aditi Aryal, 20, nodded as Bhattarai told the story. A first-year student, Aryal said she has relied heavily on the small community of Nepalese students — seven in all — to cope during the crisis.



“It is really important to be around people who understand what you are going through,” she said.



At the same time, professors have been supportive, allowing Nepalese students lenience in their last two weeks of classes as they focus on their families back in Nepal, Aryal said.



Kritika Tara Deb, a 22-year-old Smith senior from Nepal, said all of the Smith students’ parents are safe, but are living in tents on the streets. It is not safe to return to the buildings yet, she said.



She and other students are working to set up an account to donate money to a relief organization, but have been cautious about which organizations to support. Deb identified KarmaFlights.org as an organization already in Nepal committed to helping raise funds for the relief effort.



“Money is the most important form of donation that can be given,” she said.



Liza Maharjan, 20, a sophomore at Smith, said she would be returning to Nepal this summer and hoped to pitch in to help. She said skilled manpower was needed in addition to money.



Akhanda Shrestha, a fourth-year student at Hampshire College, said he has been heartbroken to see the places of his childhood destroyed. A native of Kathmandu, 22-year-old Shrestha said his mother’s foot was injured in the earthquake and she needed surgery and antibiotics.



“I have been distracted a lot, spending all my time on social media and Facebook,” he said.



Hampshire College requires its fourth-year students to complete a yearlong senior project. Shrestha completed his just before the earthquake struck; otherwise, he said, he did not think he would have been able to finish.



“My adviser has been really understanding,” he said. “We have a presentation of our thesis, but my adviser said I didn’t have to do it if I didn’t want to.”



Shrestha was among the organizers of Hampshire’s vigil Tuesday and said he was concerned about how resources are being used in Nepal.



“The government is corrupt in Nepal,” he said. “Some of the media reported the politically powerful getting the funding or the aid, and I would love this to go to people who are in need, whose houses have been destroyed completely instead of just distributing it to people who might not need it.”



Shrestha himself donated to Oxfam, an organization he said he trusts. He also said the Red Cross is trustworthy.



He said he plans to stay in the United States for now; he does not want to spend thousands of dollars to travel to Nepal when he does not believe he has the skills to help, he said. The money would be better spent sending it to relief organizations, he said.



More than 20 Nepalese students attend Mount Holyoke College, where the region’s first vigil took place on Sunday.



Mount Holyoke senior Megha Rimal, 21, said her parents live in Ohio, but she was born in Nepal and many of her family members remain there.



Rimal said her family and the families of the other Nepalese students are alive and safe as far as she knows.



Organizing a vigil was a way for the Nepalese students to reach out to other students in the college, she said.



“The vigil brought us together as a community in Mount Holyoke,” she said. “It was very sudden, but it was a good way for us to grieve.”



During the vigil, students raised $1,300 and plan to try to increase that amount through outreach to the larger community. The money will be donated to charities assisting in the relief effort in Nepal, she said.



Fellow Mount Holyoke senior Bharati Manandhar, 23, said the first few days after the earthquake were stressful as she was learning about how her family was doing.



She said it has been disappointing to hear that donated funds may have been mishandled, but she said she believes the people working on disaster relief are well-intentioned.



“It is easy for us to say this is wrong — what the government is doing — and be very critical, but we’re not on the ground dealing with the confusion,” she said.



Manandhar said she is proud of her Nepali heritage and her home city of Kathmandu. She said does not know how she will react when she returns and sees the sites of her childhood damaged or even reduced to rubble.



At the same time, she has felt grateful to those who have reached out to her and wished her well.



“Every message I’ve received and every hug — it makes us feel like people care and it (the damage from the earthquake) will not be something that will be forgotten.”



Yangjor Tamang, 42, of Leverett, has not connected with other Nepalese people, but has leaned on his spirituality as he has learned about the earthquake and its devastation.



Tamang moved to the area in 2012 after spending nearly 20 years in Kathmandu as a monk. His parents and a brother and sister are still in Nepal, and he has a brother in New York City.



“Always evenings and mornings, I pray,” said Tamang, who is a student at theCenter for New Americans in Northampton. “I’m religious.”



He and his wife donated $600 to karuna-shechen.org.



Like each Nepali interviewed for this story, Bhattaria at Smith said she hoped that people would still send aid to Nepal after media attention to the earthquake fades.



“What concerns us the most are the long-term ramifications of this,” she said.



Dave Eisenstadter can be reached at deisen@gazettenet.com.






</text>