<url>
http://www.themercury.com.au/news/opinion/talking-point-poverty-injustice-on-shaky-ground/story-fnj4f64i-1227330418258
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Talking Point: Poverty, injustice on shaky ground
</headline>

<text>
WHEN we saw the horrific images of the earthquake damage in Nepal last weekend my wife and I were devastated.

We have had three incredible trips to Nepal and the locations that experienced catastrophic destruction were the same places we had last enjoyed in early 2014.

Durbar Square, a World Heritage-listed clutter of temples, shops and palaces visited by us along with most First World visitors to Kathmandu, now lies in ruins.

The spiritual and cultural heart of the capital has been ruptured by a huge convulsion of the earth that measured 7.8 on the Richter scale.

Each time we visit Nepal we laugh about the haphazard, seemingly unregulated, buildings that sprout with rusty steel bars into the polluted Kathmandu skies. We knew they couldn’t withstand a serious quake. They didn’t.

We are hearing about well known and ancient buildings that have been devastated but I can only imagine the scale of destruction in a city whose chaotic suburbs have largely been constructed without planning, regulation or a building code as we know it.

On our three trips to Nepal we have trekked with a Sherpa guide, Dhanu Sherpa.

Nepalese people are warm and generous of spirit but materially they are very poor. For us Dhanu’s company is one of the highlights of our experience. We have met all his family and have trekked with his cousin and nephew.

They all share an amazing sense of humour that reminds me of the Australian humour — self-deprecating, intolerant of pomposity, ultimately non-judgmental, scathingly observant of any pretension and incredibly cheeky, and many times hilariously rude. Dhanu has become a friend.

With another Tasmanian trekking couple, who introduced us to Dhanu, we had been planning to bring him to Tasmania to experience our world.

Sadly, illness has had severe impact on the lives of both Tasmanian couples in the past two years and so far we have been unable to do so.

It makes me think about something that haunts me when I travel in Nepal, the unimaginable and unjust inequity that exists. Many Tasmanians can afford to travel, particularly to Third World countries where the vagaries of economies and currency exchange rates allow us to cheaply explore a simpler and, to us, exotic world.

Dhanu has only left Nepal and seen the ocean because his other Tasmanian friends shouted him to Goa, which he recalls with glee, especially the first time he walked into the warm Indian Ocean.

This terrible discrepancy applies to what is happening now in Nepal. Over the past year some of my beloved family members have been seriously ill and even died.

It happens to us all and is distressing for all. The contrast with our experience and that of families in Nepal is stark.

type_quote_start Nepalese people are warm and generous of spirit but materially they are very poor. type_quote_end

When my family members’ lives were threatened we had advanced medical facilities, highly trained staff, and a government welfare system that enabled us to get the best outcomes and care. In Nepal there is no capacity to provide universal care at the best of times. Now it is the worst of times, without adequate medical staff, hospitals, surgeons or medical supplies. Nepal is faced with thousands of dead, dying and injured.

I feel desperately sad and guilty they will not receive the care my family has in the past year. They deserve it no less.

When we trekked in 2014, Dhanu had lost a brother on Everest, the second brother he had lost working as an expedition porter.

Sadly, illness, death and disaster are much more present in the everyday lives of Nepalese people than in comfortable Australia.

Dhanu was sad, stoic and wise as usual. He has two small sons and his wife’s niece lives with them after his sister-in-law died too young. He supports them by guiding tourists like us through the awe-inspiring beauty and majesty of the Himalayas.

His wife runs an ad hoc tea shop from their tiny rented apartment an hour’s turbulent drive from Thamel, the tourist heart of Kathmandu.

His biggest concern last year was how to afford his brother’s puja, the Buddhist ceremony to honour his passing. We assisted the family and it breaks my heart remembering how profound their gratitude was and how easy it was for us in the First World to make a difference.

Dhanu also lost his cousin, who trekked with us in 2009. He was in his 30s, had climbed Everest as a porter and was one of the most joyous, robust people I have met, laughing as he ran up mountains at altitude with a heavy pack.

He, like Dhanu, was very cheeky. Dhanu said he was reduced to a skeleton and died from cancer. From Dhanu’s description his treatment was almost non-existent.

My wife has had a return of breast cancer in the past year and the treatment and care has been wonderful. It seems so wrong such disparity exists.

Dhanu comes from Sonam, a village in the Khumbu, the Everest region. He moved to Kathmandu to improve his sons’ educational prospects.

We have talked with him many times about staying with him in Sonam, a place of which he is so proud. We intend to do so on our next trip. The worry is whether Sonam still exists? I have seen images of similar mountain villages razed by the quake — crushed into oblivion.

Access to these areas is by yak and by foot. Scarce helicopters are unlikely to provide rescues or relief.

Having walked in these areas, I worry for these people who I imagine are trying to survive and recover.

The world has expressed collective grief witnessing the horror of wealthy Western climbers killed at Base Camp, but we know next to nothing of the fate of impoverished Nepalese villages and villagers through this ravaged country.

After a worrying week, we found out yesterday that Dhanu and his family survived but the building they lived in was destroyed. They are now living in a tent in the street.

Now we are seeing images of endless damaged streets and buildings, and fallen nests of power lines, we are worried about their future.

We are concerned for each and every Nepalese person affected by the tragedy.

The Nepalese economy is one of the world’s poorest and its capacity to recover without massive international help is limited. We hope Australians will be generous in their support of Nepal.

FM radio personality Dave Noonan is an announcer on Heart 107.3. He has made three trips to Nepal.
</text>