<url>
http://www.katu.com/news/local/Portland-man-ShaneBasi-Tara-Basse-helps-rescue-girl-hurt-in-Nepal-earthquake-302098201.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Portland man helps rescue girl hurt in Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
PORTLAND, Ore. -- The death toll in Nepal is up to over 6,000 people six days after a massive earthquake rocked the country.

As rescue workers dig through the rubble of the destroyed towns and cities, there are some tales of survival, including a five-month old baby who was buried alive for nearly a day.

A Portland man is in the middle of those rescue efforts.

Shane Basi, 31, told KATU News reporter Hillary Lake in a message on Facebook, he's staying in Nepal despite the disaster. Basi has been living in Kathmandu since August, 2014 to attend school.

"Honestly, I just wouldn't be able to live with myself until knowing that the Nepalese military evacuation operations were adequate and that the villages were being evacuated properly. That's the mission here. The mission that I don't want to abandon," Basi wrote.

His mom, Tara Basse, is 11,000 miles away in Portland. She and Shane were instant messaging on Facebook on Saturday when the earthquake hit. Basse initially didn't know if her son survived.

"Riding quake after quake. Never experienced this beforeThis is one of the three or four moments in my life when I actually thought I might die," Basi wrote to his mom moments after the initial earthquake struck.

Basse didn't hear from her son again until more than 24 hours later.

"That time in between, it's a complete feeling that I don't think people understand until they're a parent," Basse said.

"We contacted Red Cross, contacted the embassy," she said.

By the end of the weekend Basse could breathe again.

"CNN ran a live report and there he was, in the background later Sunday with tattoos on his back, right where I thought he'd be."

Basi's father, Drew Basse, told KATU News earlier this week about seeing his son on TV.

Shane had called his mom on the phone, a brief one minute conversation, by Monday.

"It was the most amazing feeling to hear his voice," she said, "He did two tours in Iraq. He's a medic. And I said he won't think twice about jumping in."

On Wednesday, Basse learned that her son spent the week in a remote village some nine hours away from Kathmandu rescuing people.

She read a post on his Facebook page that night about his efforts.

"Our first patient was a little girl named Khandro (angel in Tibetan) with a broken femur that was protruding out covered in maggots. It was seriously infected and I thought we would be forced to cut it right there. We thought she might have only had an hour or hours to live. I disinfected it, stuffed it, and wrapped it, and then one patient after the next, mostly broken bones and open, infected lacerations. We knew that we had to get these people off of the mountain as soon as possible, and the little girl was the priority," he wrote.

Basi, working along-side some of his friends, made a stretcher out of bamboo. They carried the girl six hours and made sure she got evacuated to Kathmandu by helicopter. Then Basi went back to the city to make sure she got the medical help she needed. He posted photos of the rescue to his Facebook page.

"As you see, we found the girl. She made it to the hospital in time for the operation," he wrote.

Thursday afternoon, Basi sent his mom a new message on Facebook.

"I was supposed to leave in a week. But I've changed my flight so I'll be staying here a while longer. I've got to rescue more. I saved her," Basi wrote.

Basse told her son, "I said, 'Shane we know now, I know why you went to Nepal. They were going to need you'."

Basi also registered the little girl he saved for a prosthetic leg.

He's not sure when he's coming home to Oregon.
</text>