<url>
https://home.bt.com/news/world-news/nepal-surgeon-to-help-back-home-11363978840779
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal surgeon to help back home
</headline>

<text>
A Nepalese surgeon is set to return to his homeland to help communities devastated by the earthquake.

With the death toll now topping 6,000 since the 7.8 magnitude quake hit on Saturday, Kamal Aryal and a team of three other surgeons believe their skills could prove vital at this critical time.

Mr Aryal, who works at the James Paget University Hospital (JPUH) in Gorleston, Norfolk, will travel to Kathmandu on Sunday and plans to spend 12 days treating a wide array of injuries.

The team hopes to save the lives of men, women and children who risk death from infected or untreated injuries. They also expect to prevent others from becoming permanently disabled.

Many of Mr Aryal's family still live in Kathmandu and his home village of Arubas in the Dhading district. They have now been accounted for, but he told of his nervous wait for news.

Mr Aryal, who moved to the UK 15 years ago, said: "When the earthquake hit, I couldn't contact my parents in Kathmandu - but eventually I got the news they were safe and the house was OK, which was a great relief.

"The village I was born in was next to the epicentre of the earthquake. Many of my cousins still live there.

"It was very badly hit - houses were completely flattened. I couldn't get through for several days because the communications networks were down.

"Eventually, we got the news that my relatives and the people I know were safe - but they are experiencing great hardship."

He said that a week on from the disaster, the true extent of people's injuries was now becoming apparent.

"There is a lack of manpower, facilities and equipment, so hopefully that is something we can help with," Mr Aryal added.

"We are expecting most of the patients will have upper and lower limb injuries as well as head injuries. I feel a very strong personal obligation to do whatever I can to help."

Mr Aryal used his contacts from his time training in Kathmandu to organise the trip in just two days.

He will be joined by colleagues Andreas Brodbeck, an anaesthetist with interest in pain and intensive care, Emeka Nnene, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, and Mike Flores, also an orthopaedic surgeon with an interest in trauma.

Christine Allen, hospital chief executive, said: "We are enormously proud of the team and the courage and determination of our staff to help the people of Nepal in their hour of need."

"We hope that our NHS team are able to treat as many people as possible.

"They go with our best wishes and sincere hopes that, in some small way, they can help the people of Nepal cope with this terrible tragedy."

The team's costs are being funded by Nepal In Need, a Norfolk-based charity which is organising consignments of donated tents to go to Nepal.

Charity chairman David Ellis said: "Nepal has been absolutely devastated by this earthquake. There are huge areas where there are no medical services, no food or shelter.

"In Kathmandu, there are a number of hospitals that are now very short on medical supplies and specialist staff such as orthopaedic surgeons. That is where the JPUH team will come in."

The total mission will cost about £4,000. Donations can be made online at www.nepalinneed.org.
</text>