<url>
https://uk.news.yahoo.com/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-rises-6-200-044637074.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Rescue Dog Camera Shows Nepal Devastation
</headline>

<text>
A video filmed from the perspective of a rescue dog shows the mammoth challenges faced on the ground in disaster-hit Nepal.

The Israel Defense Forces released footage of their canine in the rubble as efforts to find survivors continue nearly a week on.

The video captures some of the devastation left by the 7.8-magnitude quake, the worst to strike the country in 80 years.

With the number of people confirmed dead at 6,200, and nearly 14,000 people injured, Nepal is urging the international community to help.

The government says it needs to raise at least $2bn (£1.2bn) for rebuilding homes, hospitals and government offices.

The Red Cross is "extremely concerned" about the welfare of the hundreds of thousands of people affected in far-flung areas of the poor Himalayan nation.

Its teams assessing the situation warned of "total devastation" in some towns and villages close to the quake's epicentre.

"One of our teams that returned from Chautara in Sindupalchowk district reported that 90% of the homes are destroyed," said Jagan Chapagain, Asia Pacific director of the Red Cross.

"The hospital has collapsed, and people are digging through the rubble with their hands in the hope that they might find family members who are still alive.

"We can expect the situation to be the same if not worse in many other places where aid has not yet been delivered."

Further aid is arriving from Britain, with three Royal Air Force CH47 Chinook helicopters travelling from RAF Brize Norton to Nepal over the next few days.

They will bolster the aid efforts currently under way from a C-17 aircraft which arrived on Thursday carrying a team of Gurkha engineers and 18 tonnes of supplies.

The UK will also contribute £2.5m to the UN's Humanitarian Air Service to increase helicopter capacity and allow aid supplies to reach isolated areas.

Britain initially pledged £15m to the aid relief effort, while more than £19m was raised in public donations by the Disasters Emergency Committee a day after it was launched.

Twelve European Union citizens died in the disaster, it has been confirmed.

The EU ambassador to Nepal, Rensje Teerink, also said 1,000 EU citizens remained unaccounted for. Most of those had been trekking in the remote Langtang mountain range.

One British dual national killed has been named as Hemchandra Rai, a 42-year-old married father-of-three who lived in Hong Kong.

More than 100 Britons who were left stranded in Nepal have now arrived home .

Although the hopes of finding survivors are fading, there have been moments of hope - on Thursday, a woman was pulled alive from the rubble five days after the devastating earthquake struck .

French, Israeli and Norwegian rescuers took 10 hours to get the woman - named as Krishna Kumari Khadka - to safety.

Hours earlier, a 15-year-old boy was freed from a collapsed hotel in Kathmandu.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has warned the death toll could reach 10,000.
</text>