<url>
http://www.healthaim.com/getting-back-normal-nepal-earthquake/22554
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake survivors fears of aftershocks of the incident
</headline>

<text>
The Nepal earthquake is more of a painful incident than just being news now. With the death counts still increasing, it has crossed 5,600 as of today. Thousands of people are still very much worried about the aftershocks of the earthquake. There are people who are boarding buses that will give them free rides to their rural hometowns. The only satisfaction is, along with increasing death counts, rescue teams are also saving lives every moment. The Star Tribune report published on April 30 talks about one such survivor of the Nepal earthquake.

Pemba Tamang, 15, was all in dust and shock, when he was rescued by the Nepalese people, with the help of American disaster response team. He was trapped under the debris of a seven-story building that collapsed during the earthquake in Kathmandu. He was trapped for five days. Amongst all other earthquakes in the world, the Nepal earthquake would surely grab an attention because of its 7.9 magnitude. But despite such horrifying magnitude, he was very much responsive, which was surprising, stated L.B. Basnet, a police officer who helped the rescue teams to find Tamang.

“He thanked me when I first approached him,” he said. “He told me his name, his address and I gave him some water. I assured him we were near to him,” Basnet added further. Tamang was a worker in a hotel that was situated in the same building. “Suddenly the building fell down,” Tamang mentioned. “I thought I was about to die,” he said in shock to The Associated Press.

Aftershocks of the Nepal earthquake to last for long

“It’s getting back to normal, but we’re still feeling aftershocks. It still doesn’t feel safe,” claimed 27-year-old Prabhu Dutta. In the morning there were four aftershocks that moved the sliding glass doors in his bedroom’s bookshelf. It was “my morning wakeup notice,” said the banker from Kathmandu.

These aftershocks may last for long. “We can expect aftershocks over the next few weeks, or months, or even year,” stated J.L. Gautam, director of seismology of the Indian Meteorological Department in New Delhi. “These aftershocks are quite normal after a powerful earthquake of such magnitude,” he added further regarding the Nepal earthquake.

It may take a long time for everything to be the same, but life after the devastating Nepal earthquake is slowly getting back to normal. Snack shops had opened, foreigners have lined up in front of a mobile phone store, another man laid out carpets at his handicrafts store and a merchant cleaned the dust from a display jacket.

Photo: DFID – UK Department For International Development

For comments and suggestions, leave a message in the comments section below. Like and Follow our Facebook page for more stories and to stay up-to-date with the latest happenings.
</text>