<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/taranaki-daily-news/68193327/nepal-expat-in-new-plymouth-wishes-he-could-return-home-to-check-on-loved-ones
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal expat in New Plymouth wishes he could return home to check on loved ones
</headline>

<text>
Nepal expat in New Plymouth wishes he could return home to check on loved ones

Robert Charles/Fairfax NZ Prasun Acharya waited eight hours for news from Nepal.

Nepalese national Prasun Acharya was resting at his New Plymouth home when the ANZAC day earthquake tore through his homeland.

The quake left his family fighting for their lives amid a torrent of after shocks.

"I didn't know what had happened until my friend called me. I was scared to death when he told me."

For eight long hours Acharya made unsuccessful attempts to reach the family he had farewelled 10 years ago when he left for New Zealand.

Feeling sick to his stomach, he couldn't bring himself to read the online news for fear his mum, dad, sister, brother or nieces were a part of the rapidly increasing death toll.

"We were just praying everybody was ok."

Finally came a moment of reprieve. Acharya's sister answered her phone and confirmed she and the rest of his family were alive.

"And then another earthquake hit while we were talking and she was just screaming and screaming while running outside. They are all very scared."

And as if the aftershocks , death and devastation were not enough to contend with, Acharya said people were now battling the wintry conditions as a lot of Kathmandu residents were having to choose between safety and comfort.

He said many people had been forced out of their quake-damaged, albeit still liveable, homes, to sleep outside in the fields where it is considered safe.

"The night after the big earthquake it got really cold and started drizzling," he said.

"For the first night my parents slept outside, but they are too elderly to continue sleeping out there in the cold and so now they have to risk sleeping inside."

One week on from the tragic quake and Acharya is still unsure if he has lost any friends and he believes it will be a long time before he finds out.

"It's going to take time to find all the dead people."

He said the hospital is struggling to house everyone and patients had taken to corridor floors. His brother, an orthopaedic surgeon, evacuated a patient mid-surgery when the quake hit.

Hygiene issues, clean drinking water and finding food were all crippling the surviving residents he said.

This was an issue Taranaki Daily News journalist Matt Rilkoff , who was caught in the quake, said was already very serious when he left two days after the quake.

Food supplies were immediately rationed at the hotel he was staying in but within two days they were running out and encouraging all guests to seek alternative accommodation at embassies if they could not leave Kathmandu.

The neighbourhoods appeared to be looking after themselves but there were fears once the meagre supplies ran out they would have nothing.

"No one is sure whether the government or aid agencies will be able to supply the food and water they need. They have almost no faith in their government to be able to help or that it will even be willing to help. They are used to getting nothing from their government," he said.

People were also worried about security, worried people were out there roaming in and out of houses and stealing from their homes.

"I didn't witness any looting but we heard that it was happening. " Rilkoff said.

The other issue was the lack of direction from any government authority.

"Most people don't seem to know what to do," he said.

"We didn't have any one authority figure tell us what to do or where to go. Kathmandu was completely absent of authority except for a few police men and soldiers who were just boys and didn't seem to have the respect of their population. People certainly weren't afraid of telling us the government was useless," he said.

Rilkoff said it was difficult to see how Kathmandu would ever rebuilt .

"Even before the earthquake the city streets were strewn with rubble and rubbish, buildings were shoddy and the infrastructure that was there was run down and dilapidated."

Now hundreds of buildings are in ruins and it is likely those still standing will never be safe to live in. But there will be no choice. Right now hundreds of thousands of people are living in squares and parks in temporary shelters, a euphemism for a square of plastic sheeting.

"It's difficult to see how there will be a proper re-build . From what I saw they don't have the money or even the construction capacity to rebuild anything to a decent standard," Rilkoff said.

"The city is never going to be same. It's so poor and they will never be able to afford to build homes to a standard that offers some protection in an earthquake. And even if they can rebuild they will have to live outside in temporary shelters or in their damaged homes while that is happening. It's pretty sad because they won't be able to feel truly safe for months if not years."

Rilkoff said Nepal was not even classified as a developing country and the lack of both physical and bureaucratic infrastructure would significantly hamper any relief programmes.

"The international airport was a mess at the best of times. Now it's simply not working. People can't get out and aid can't get in. So you might have everyone wanting to help but right now they don't have the capacity to accept, store or distribute that help effectively. I can see the situation in Nepal getting more and more desperate regardless of how much aid is on offer."

Rilkoff had initially been in Nepal with a team of journalists working on a project that included following the work of Smile High, a dental aid programme operating in Nepal that had been set up by New Plymouth man Julian Haszard.

While Haszard had returned home before the quake struck he said his Nepalese team were caught in the middle and are now doing their part to help the people around them. To help them help others Haszard has set up a relief fund from which he will support controlled projects on the ground through his Smile High co-founder Mingma Sherpa.

Mingma's home in Kathmandu, in which four families live, survived the quake but Haszard said it would need to be assessed by an engineer because it would likely become a base for relief. The water filter was also broken so money would go to getting that back up and running so clean water could be given out.

"We want Mingma to be in a position to provide food and water to the people around him. We want to channel our relief through him because he is quite capable," Haszard said.

Haszard said he had spoken with Mingma after the quake and his friend and colleague told him he had had to pull three dead people from rubble. "When I spoke with him you could feel it, the gravity of the situation was huge."

&nbsp;

Other Smile High contacts in the village of Dholaka were now living without shelter as almost all of the buildings had been destroyed, Haszard said. He said things would "get worse before they get better."

The lack of Food, water and sanitation would soon cause major health issues, Haszard said.

"The reality is we are fast approaching a point where people could become sick. Everything is stretched to the max, it's beyond stretched to the max."

There would also be problems as people tried to rebuild, he said. "Lot of people will start trying to rebuild and that will cause tension between trying to rebuild to regulations versus the need to build up shelter quickly." As well as Haszard's Smile High fund several other NGOs were appealing for help for Nepal. Given the cost of sending relief items to Nepal, most were calling for donations.

Taranaki also has a big connection with the Khari khola village which had been severely damaged in the quake. Robin Drake, who has visited every year since 2003, had spoken with Ngima Dorji Sherpa who said almost every home was damaged but thankfully no one in the village had died.

Drake said the best way for people to help was to continue visiting the country. Nepal relied on tourism and if Kiwis continued to travel there they could "give money to people when they were there."

New Zealand had pledged money and was working with the Red Cross, something Acharya had also been doing. For the past couple days he had been posted up at Centre City collecting funds and will continue to do so over the weekend.

Being away from his loved ones at this desperate time has left Acharya feeling helpless.

"I wish I could go home. It's worst thing is being so far away and just watching, it makes me feel sick."

- Taranaki Daily News
</text>