<url>
http://tmn.truman.edu/blog/news/truman-aids-in-nepal-crisis-2/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Truman Aids in Nepal Crisis
</headline>

<text>
When the magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck Nepal, Truman State alumnus James “Patrick” Myers was caught on the Himalayan Mountains.

Myers had just completed a year-long graduate teaching program in Thailand and had come to Nepal to hike the mountains. He was staying in Pokhara, west of Kathmandu.

He says the earthquake was not something he expected.

“At first I thought I was dehydrated and my vision and balance were failing, but then I realized the earth was moving,” Myers says. “I watched pine trees swaying in different directions. I began to hear rockfall and it felt like I was standing on a piece of plywood on top of a waterbed.”

Myers made it off the mountain safely and says although he has felt minor aftershocks, the town where he is staying did not incur much damage from the quake. Elsewhere, however, Myers says it is a different story.

Assisting Rural Communities

Myers says while the media has focused attention on the damage done to large cities such as Kathmandu, the media has not given much attention to the poorer rural areas and villages that are badly damaged. He says seeing the destruction to homes and buildings made him decide to spend his remaining time in Nepal volunteering.

Myers says he is working with an organization called Sardovaya Nepal, a sister organization of Sardovaya USA. He says the organization is working directly with him to help him find volunteer work in a rural area of Nepal. Myers says the organization has set up a fund for earthquake disaster relief.

The atmosphere in Nepal is mixed, Myers says, with many of the locals trying to get back to a sense of normalcy by planning hiking trips and even paragliding excursions. Others, he says, are trying to evacuate the area and contact loved ones.

“I’ve talked with some local Nepalese waiting to hear from family in Kathmandu,” Myers says. “The conversations I’ve had have been very nonchalant. When giving my condolences one man says, ‘Oh, it’s ok. These things happen.’ I’m sure this isn’t everyone’s attitude, just what I’ve experienced.”

Myers says he has been able to keep in close contact with his family in High Ridge, Missouri, and says the friends he made while abroad are all also safe.

State of Travel in Nepal

Myers says he has a flight to India May 4 from Kathmandu, less than 50 miles from the quake’s epicenter, and is concerned about the state of the airport. He says there are thousands of people lined up at the airport waiting to leave the country. Myers says those who have tickets are given priority to leave the country, so he is confident he will be able to leave without any problems. However, he says he expects to endure a lot of confusion when the time comes for him to depart.

Despite staying in Nepal during an uncertain and trying time, Myers says he was surprised by the warmth and welcoming attitude of the Nepali people.

“I’d like people to know that their help does not go unnoticed,” Myers says. “I’ve been thanked by Nepalese just for being American. Now I want to earn that thanks by helping any way I can.”

Truman Students Feel Aftershocks

Junior Anjani Baral was studying at Truman when she heard the news about the earthquake in her home country. She says she remembers her great-grandmother telling her stories about the last earthquake in Nepal more than 80 years ago, but today it just seems like a bad dream.

She says she has been in contact with her family every four hours thanks to emergency phone services and social media. She says her house has withstood the earthquake, but her parents have been living in their car for the past four days to stay safe from the strong aftershocks.

Baral says the Nepalese students she knows at Truman have been lucky — no one has lost a family member. However, she says many historic buildings and tourist attractions in their cities have been destroyed.

“It’s a really scary time, and it’s awful to see all the pictures of the cities and the people who died,” Baral says. “At the same time, I’m trying to be optimistic and hope that this will be a new beginning for Nepal, and a chance to grow.”

Baral says she plans to return to Nepal for the summer to visit her family.

Campus Organization Raises Awareness

Namaste Nepal hosted a Nepal Awareness table on The Quad Tuesday, as well as a candlelight vigil April 29 to raise awareness and show solidarity for those affected by the earthquake. According to the Namaste Nepal website the group is hosting a food fundraiser and dinner from 5-6 p.m. April 30 in the Baptist Student Union building. Tickets are $5 and all proceeds go toward relief efforts in Nepal.

Namaste Nepal is collecting donations through a GoFundMe campaign at gofundme.com/helpnepalstandtall.com. Those on Truman’s campus can make a donation through nepalfund.truman.edu, or contact the Advancement Office at 660-785-4133.

To donate to Sardovaya Nepal, visit sarvodayausa.org. Those interested also can donate to the Red Cross at redcross.org.
</text>