<url>
http://pagosadailypost.com/2015/05/01/editorial-the-precarious-fate-of-the-county-courthouse-part-seven/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
EDITORIAL: The Precarious Fate of the County Courthouse, Part Seven – Pagosa Daily Post News Events & Video for Pagosa Springs Colorado
</headline>

<text>
Read Part One

Back in 1994, my wife (now, ex-wife) Clarissa and I purchased a wood-frame house located off North Fifth Street in downtown Pagosa. We’d been driving past this house for a couple of years, and we both admired its classic “Farmhouse Victorian” styling — and its location on the edge of downtown with views of the San Juan Mountains. One day, we heard from a friend that the house was going on the market. As it happened, we had just sold a house in Juneau, Alaska, and we were lucky enough to be the first to make an offer on the house.

The two-story house had been built circa 1900 by a Civil War veteran named Sparks, He’d used a stacked stone foundation, with rough cut pine for the walls and ceilings, overlaid with gauze and wallpaper. The structure did not originally include running water, nor a bathroom, nor did it originally have natural gas, nor electricity. Numerous additions and modernizing modifications had been made prior to our purchasing it — but at least some of the doors and windows appeared to be original. I remodeled the two garages into artist studios while I lived there; Clarissa has done even more upgrades since our divorce.

Clarissa still lives in the house with our daughter Ursala, along with Ursala’s husband Chris, and their two young children.

Were a licensed engineer or architect to analyze the condition of the building, they would probably determine that the structure was ready to fall down. The list of building codes that this house would violate — had it been built new in 2015 — would probably fill a fat notebook. Yet it continues to serve as a warm and friendly home, just as it did, no doubt, in 1900.

The wood-frame house has been significantly improved and upgraded from when we bought it in 1994.

Yes, upgrades and additions have been made — but the house functions mainly because the human inhabitants have adapted to the available space, not because the space has been adapted to the human inhabitants. Various and sundry families have fit their activities into rooms conceived and built in 1900 by a non-architect with no specific engineering background.

That’s pretty typical of families — and governments. You fit your busy life into whatever space is available. Humans are actually quite adept at this process.

I hear, for example, that even our Archuleta Board of County Commissioners (BOCC) were able to slightly modify a former school building on Lewis Street to accommodate themselves and all of their administrative staff. The building had required some asbestos mitigation, I understand, and an additional exterior door was added. But I am guessing the cost of repurposing an existing building was but a fraction of what the BOCC might have spend constructing a brand new building on the site.

A joint meeting of the BOCC and the Pagosa Springs Town Council took place in that remodeled structure this week — a strategic planning session, with a particular goal. The chair of the BOCC, Michael Whiting, and the town’s Mayor, Don Volger, led our government leaders in a five-hour discussion, aimed at developing some long-range plans for working cooperatively and collaboratively to improve our local community. Yes, we have two separate government boards — the BOCC and the Town Council — and these two government boards serve slightly different constituencies and have slightly different priorities. But it’s really one community, basically. Our children all attend the same schools; we all shop at the same stores; we all drive on the same roads.

Which priorities do the Town and County have in common? Which priorities would benefit from collaborative efforts?

The Town and County have cooperated in the past on a few projects — and they have been at odds on other projects. Recently, the two boards have both been supporting an effort to build a trail from downtown Pagosa to the Pagosa Lakes area, four miles to the west. That project has been proceeding very slowly and haltingly, requiring — as it apparently does — the acquisition of four miles of trail easements, many of them through private property. (The trail could probably follow HIghway 160 without too much trouble, but our leaders are shooting for a more peaceful path, through the woods.)

It seems to me that one of the Town Council’s central priorities, ever since commercial development began to be centered in the Pagosa Lakes area in the early 1990s, has the revitalization of Downtown Pagosa. In fact, I believe that priority is clearly stated in the Council’s newly adopted “Goals and Objectives.” This adopted plan includes four “Goals” and fourteen “Objectives.”

Here are half of them:

As readers of the Daily Post and the local weekly newspaper are no doubt aware, the County Jail — built in 1990, as a modification to the 1928 County Courthouse — has been suffering from a leaking roof for the past 23 years (according to at least one former County employee.) The leaking became so severe last weekend, during a rainstorm, that all of the inmates were re-located to the La Plata County Jail some 60 miles away. The Sheriff’s Department staff have vacated their offices in that same west wing.

The BOCC has the additional problem of a threatened lawsuit by the Colorado Court System, based on the BOCC’s failure to provide sufficient and suitable office and courtroom space for the state Judicial District.

As you might imagine, the joint Town-County meeting on Tuesday involved considerable discussion of the problems at the Courthouse.

What I did not hear mentioned, during that entire five-hour discussion about collaboration and cooperation, were three of the Town Council’s fourteen official priorities:

Objective 1.3: Enhance and Protect our Historic Resources

Objective 1.4: Explore Pagosa Unique Character

Objective 2.3: Help to Revitalize & Expand the Downtown Commercial Area

Let’s begin with “Objective 2.3”. The County Courthouse is by far the most active social gathering place in downtown Pagosa Springs, other than the elementary and middle school buildings. Literally hundreds of people go in and out of the Courthouse each day. In terms of adding to Downtown’s year-round vitality, you can hardly beat the Courthouse as a contributor.

That fact was not discussed at the joint meeting on Tuesday, that I can recall.

Nor did I hear anyone specifically mention “Objective 1.3: Enhance and Protect our Historic Resources.” What I heard, instead, was County Attorney Todd Starr asserting that the BOCC had agreed to tear down an historic downtown icon.

“On [April 21] the decision was to build a new courthouse,” he told the joint meeting on Tuesday.

The Town and County could easily cooperate, it seems to me, to help keep Downtown vital, and to preserve our historic buildings. If they chose to do so.

A sad disaster has made world headlines this week: a magnitude 7.8 earthquake in Nepal, where thousands of people were killed, and ancient buildings in Kathmandu and Bhaktapur were destroyed or damaged. Many of the ancient temples in Nepal date back to the 16th century. Presumably, some of those temples have been through previous earthquakes? I can imagine that, in some cases at least, the damage will be repaired and the temples will continue to serve the people of Nepal.

Here in America, a leaking roof is sufficient justification, in the minds of some, to tear down an 87-year-old building and spend $10 million — or maybe $20 million — building a brand new courthouse with a brand new leaking roof.
</text>