<url>
http://www.ucanews.com/news/nepali-youths-unite-en-masse-to-clean-up-kathmandu/73500
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepali youths unite en masse to clean up Kathmandu
</headline>

<text>
Over 1,500 Nepali youth came together in Kathmandu to help disaster rescue teams clear debris at the famous Durbar Square after a 7.8-magnitude quake struck the country Saturday. The death toll is now at more than 6,200 and rising, with some of the most heavily hit areas still unreachable.

A call for help on Facebook helped connect the youngsters who voluntarily arrived at Durbar Square to clear debris at the prominent tourist attraction, which used to serve as the residence of the Nepali royal family.

“I was coming here to help the rescue teams since the earthquake but yesterday [officials] put a request on the Facebook for the youngsters to come forward for help and the response is overwhelming,” Subin Joshi, a young college student, told ucanews.com on Thursday.

Joshi said the debris needs to be cleared as soon as possible because the erratic rains are making the situation worse and there is a fear that diseases could spread.

“Rescue teams and security forces cannot do this gigantic task alone. We will have to help them manage this,” he added.

The earthquake has resulted in massive loss of property across the country. Over 100,000 buildings have been completely destroyed while nearly 78,000 were partially damaged.

People form a human chain to pass bricks in Kathmandu (Photo by Ritu Sharma)

Apart from houses, two of Kathmandu’s most recognizable tourist attractions — Dharahara Tower and Durbar Square — could not bear the heavy jolts of the April 25 earthquake and collapsed.

Wearing gloves and holding spades, the youths, mainly college students, formed human chains and helped collect bricks and move heavy logs.

“I read the message on Facebook and came to help. In this time of pain and suffering for my country, I am doing my bit,” said Vipin Adhikari.

He said that “the worst calamity in over 80 years has fallen upon us and we need to stand united to face [it]”.

Echoing the same views, Roopa Thapa said the strength of a country is always tested in times like this and “we have proved that no matter what the times are, we stand united”.

Expressing sorrow at the damage being done by the natural calamity, she said she was concerned about the country’s future given the blow to the tourist industry.

“A large number of tourists used to come to see these two sites in Kathmandu. Now how will the tourists come? The country has gone 50 years back due to the earthquake,” she added.

Meanwhile, over 47,000 security personnel of the Nepalese army and police force are engaged in rescue efforts in 56 quake-hit districts. Security personnel from other countries, including India, Pakistan and Japan are also helping in the rescue efforts.

Expressing happiness at the volunteer effort of the city’s youth, a senior police official said he was pleased to see the future generation helping their country.

“They came of their own free will and we are happy to see them work with this dedication. The work has gathered pace in the area with their help,” SB Khatri, deputy superintendent of police of Kathmandu, told ucanews.com.
</text>