<url>
http://www.newsday.co.tt/news/0,210303.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Trinidad and Tobago's Newsday : newsday.co.tt :
</headline>

<text>
Immense human tragedy

By ANDRE BAGOO Monday, April 27 2015

MINISTER of Foreign Affairs Winston Dookeran is today due to receive a report on the question of whether any nationals have been affected by the devastating earthquake and aftershock which this weekend rocked Nepal claiming more than 2,500 lives.

Dookeran said the disaster was a “human tragedy of immense proportion” which is likely to attract a collaborative, Caricom approach on the question of humanitarian aid.



“It is a human tragedy of immense proportion,” the minister said. “At this stage, I have no information if any Trinidad and Tobago citizens have been affected, but our embassy would alert us shortly if there is any such situation.” The diplomatic post with accreditation to deal with Nepal is the Trinidad and Tobago High Commission at New Delhi, India.



Of a possible Caricom-wide response, similar to what occurred in 2010 after the Haiti earthquake, Dookeran said, “I am sure it will be a matter that Caricom would have a definite interest in getting involved in. We would look at the international support and examine whatever small way we can provide strong support to the international efforts.”



The minister also said Trinidad and Tobago diplomats would move to provide relief at the level of the United Nations which has been providing support in all the countries affected, including Nepal, India, Bangladesh and in the Chinese region of Tibet. Communications Minister Vasant Bharath last Saturday said Cabinet would consider assistance to the devastated nation.



Caricom neighbour St Lucia yesterday appealed for support for the people of Nepal and the families of some students now stranded in that island state.



According to a statement from St Lucia prime minister Kenny Anthony’s office, the family homes of at least three students who are currently in St Lucia as a result of what is known as the Lambirds Academy case have been destroyed and family members were injured.



“Disasters of this magnitude are unpredictable,” Anthony said. “It is understandable that the students would be deeply distressed and worried by the events at home at this time.” He extended condolences to the students, their families and indeed, the Government and people of Nepal.



“It is sad to note that such a tragedy has occurred at a time when the students in our midst are coping with the difficult circumstances brought about by the Lambirds Academy case,” Anthony said. “In recent weeks, they have taken to the airwaves to express their sorrow, fears and concerns. The events in Nepal would of course, complicate efforts currently underway to assist the students to be reunited with their families.” He said the government will extend whatever support it can to assist and support the students as they seek to cope with the tragedy in their homeland. Anthony called on all St Lucians to offer their prayers and support to the students in their hour of need and despair.



“This a humanitarian crisis that deserves no less of a response,” he said.



Four men, including three from India, are facing human trafficking charges after police uncovered an alleged scam that ferried 60 young people from Nepal and the Philippines to the pristine islands of St Lucia. The group claimed that they had responded to an offer of education in hospitality, cruise and business management at the Lambirds Academy based in the northern town of Gros Islet.



Diego Martin Central MP Dr Amery Browne, on his Facebook page on Saturday, described the Nepal disaster as “absolute misery”.



“Even as Trinidad and Tobago is enjoying a sunny Saturday afternoon, there are tens of thousands of our fellow humans on the other side of the globe suffering a night of absolute misery after a monstrous earthquake,” Browne said. “Widespread death, mass injuries, missing loved ones and the destruction of almost everything with which they had become familiar during their lives. Let us spare a thought and prayer for them, even as we fight evil with good in our little corner of the world.”



See page 29A
</text>