<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3063887/American-survivors-Nepal-earthquake-rescued-special-forces-spending-five-days-living-CAVE-mountains.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Americans rescued from Nepal earthquake disaster after five days living in cave
</headline>

<text>
Described how boulders rained down on them, flattening nearby villages

Three Americans who became trapped in the mountains of Nepal after the country was hit by an earthquake have described how they survived for five days by hiding in a cave.

Eric Jean, 32, and Della Hoffman, 31, both from Colorado, and Corey Ascolani, 34, from Illinois, said they were trekking through the Langtang National Park when the 7.8 magnitude quake struck.

The trio told how they dodged an avalanche of boulders triggered by the tremor and camped out in a cave for five days, before using a satellite phone to contact U.S. special forces who saved them.

Corey Ascolani, 34 (left), from Illinois, and Eric Jean, 32 (centre), and Della Hoffman, 31 (right), both from Colorado, have told of how they survived the Nepal earthquake by hiding in a cave for five days

Miss Hoffman and Mr Jean, who are in a long-term realtionship, described how they were drinking tea in a bamboo camp when the quake hit, launching an avalanche of boulders that flattened nearby villages

Miss Hoffman, who is in a long-term relationship with Mr Jean, said the pair were sitting in a bamboo camp when the natural disaster struck a week ago today.

She described how huge rocks began falling from cliffs on either side of her camp, destroying fragile houses in the surrounding villages.

Speaking to ABC News, she said: 'I actually hid under a table, which in retrospect seems a little silly with how big the boulders were. But I hid under there for a little while until they stopped falling.'

Mr Ascolani said he was sitting with an Israeli traveller he had met a few days before when rocks began falling from both sides on to the trekkers

Mr Ascolani said he had been drinking coffee with an Israeli trekker he had met a couple of days previously when the shaking began, and said rocks began falling from all sides.

Miss Hoffman, who is currently taking part in a round the world trip, said she and her boyfriend joined up with a group of Nepalese villagers who made their way to a cave further up the cliff face.

Once there, they also met Mr Ascolani, who told The Daily Beast that were around 80 people in total in their group, including 22 tourists.

Miss Hoffman said that there was not enough room for everyone in the cave, meaning several people had to shelter on the rock face.

That put them at risk of being hit by rocks that constantly feel during the first day as the area was rocked by yet more aftershocks, reports ABC 7.

Once the shocks had stopped, the group's thoughts turned to survival, and fortunately the Nepalese villagers agreed to help them out.

Mr Jean, a software engineer, said: 'This village had restaurants and we worked out that we could all eat. We used the river for water when our water supplies ran out.

'We all banded together and figured out how to make it work.'

By another stroke of fortune, the Israeli travellers who Mr Ascolani had met had a satellite device on them, which allowed the Americans to email their families to let them know they were safe.

Mr Ascolani's relatives then contacted rescue workers, telling them the group's exact location.

The three Americans were hiking in the Lantang National Park (pictured before the earthquake) at the time, and were forced to take shelter in a cave to protect from the aftershocks

The trio described how they were with a group of around 80 Nepalese villagers who gave them food and found water from a stream to keep them alive (pictured, Langtang after the earthquake)

Luckily the Israeli travellers had a satellite communication device, so the group were able to email their families, who in turn passed their location to U.S. special forces who were in the area

The details were passed over to a group of U.S. green berets who had been in Nepal for high altitude training when the disaster happened.

Eventually the special forces managed to get a message through to the group that a helicopter would be able to make it to their camp yesterday afternoon.

Mr Jean said that, after the threat of falling rocks had disappeared, the group managed to construct a helipad from one of the raised platforms usually used for eating.

Miss Hoffman added: 'We were just so grateful when we heard the helicopter come. We were particularly grateful because there were, at this point, 22 of us left, all different nationalities.

'When they came, they took us but they promised they would go back and get everyone. And so within four trips all of us were out.'

Almost 6,000 people have now been confirmed dead following the 7.8 magnitude quake which hit a week ago, as families burn the corpses of the relatives on the Bagmati river, Kathmandu

The Nepalese capital has been all-but destroyed in the natural disaster, while those in remoter regions have complained that little or no aid has reached them so far

The group are now resting at the U.S. embassy in Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal which was also devastated during the earthquake.

It is not known what their plans are, but Mr Jean said that it is unlikely he will return to the country to trek any time soon.

The death toll from the Nepalese disaster has now risen above 6,000, with the country's president warning that it could top 10,000 as rescuers reach remote regions.
</text>