<url>
http://calgaryherald.com/news/local-news/fortney-one-week-after-nepal-earthquake-relief-for-some-agony-for-others
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Fortney: One week after Nepal earthquake, relief for some, agony for others
</headline>

<text>
When the helicopter came, she ran to it in jubilation, certain her ordeal was over. To her surprise, the chopper took her to yet another small village. A seven-hour hike followed, along devastated trails covered with large boulders and other obstacles. Finally, after a long bus ride through mountainous terrain, Tamara McLeod was back in the capital city.

“She sent me a Facebook message to say she was in Kathmandu and was about to go have some Pad Thai,” says Michelle Dack with a soft laugh. “She wrote, ‘Spread the word, sister, and by the way, you’re an amazing blessing from God.’”

One week after an earthquake devastated much of the South Asian country of Nepal, the stories of death and destruction, staggering loss and sorrow, along with miraculous tales of survival continue to keep the world riveted.

For the Canadian citizens who were in this mountainous and enchanted land when the 8.7 magnitude quake hit on April 25, at least so far — foreign affairs says it is unclear how many Canadians may still be missing — initial fear for their safety has been replaced with relief and gratitude.

Like 24-year-old McLeod, who is resting in New Delhi, India for a few days after hopping on a Canadian Forces C-17 Globemaster from Kathmandu, fellow Calgarians Dana Engler, 58 and his son Shaun, 30, now know their experiences of crawling through mudslides are but a bad memory.

“They’re alive, well and have secured flights to Singapore,” says Dana Engler’s son-in-law Jonathan Clark. Earlier, Clark criticized the Canadian government’s response to rescue efforts for its citizens. While he admits he still has “some anger at the consulate,” he says they are all now ready to move on. “I think at this point it’ll be the last the family wants to talk about it, outside of the family,” he says, adding all are relieved and grateful the pair will soon return home.

Gratitude is the prevailing theme at the Barton house in Calgary, where Terry Barton has been kept updated on his son Zachary’s work both getting his kids to safer ground and helping out the neediest in the country he now calls home. “He got them to an acreage outside of Kathmandu,” says Barton, whose son oversees two orphanages through the Calgary-based Kamala Foundation.

“They’ve been busy taking supplies to others — we feel very lucky that everyone we know in Nepal is safe.”

For many of those who live in the second poorest country in Asia, though, the outlook is grim. Chris Considine tells me that according to United Nations estimates, more than 225,000 people have been left homeless; and the death toll of close to 6,000 is a number expected to triple, when search and rescue teams finally get to remote parts of the country. “There are 1.4 million people in need of food assistance, with eight million affected in some way or another,” says Considine, the Victoria, B.C.-based consul general of Nepal.

Helicopter and other searchers have been hampered by bad weather, he says, making such stories of life against all odds, like the 15-year-old boy found on Thursday, less and less likely. “It just makes you want to weep,” he says of hearing stories of loss from members of Canada’s 30,000 strong Nepalese community.

Still, Considine — who credits the Canadian government with offering $5 million in aid and sending a DART team this week — is encouraged by the outpouring of support here in Canada. “The South Asian community in Vancouver held a fundraiser that raised more than $400,000, a number that will be matched by the federal government,” he says.

Here in Calgary, radio station 106.7 Red FM holds a daylong radiothon Friday to raise funds for Nepal earthquake relief, while the Calgary Nepalese Community Association has been working all week collecting donations and assisting local members of the city’s approximately 4,000-strong Nepalese-Canadian community who either cannot locate family members in Nepal, or have received the terrible news that they are injured or dead.

“Many of us have taken the week off from work, trying to do what we can to help,” says Prasanna Man Shrestha, noting his association is also planning a vigil for earthquake victims on Friday at 8 p.m. in front of City Hall, an event open to all Calgarians.

Shrestha says he has one friend who has lost four family members, while his grandparents’ home was destroyed. “We’re exhausted but it’s important to keep trying to find the missing, to help those trying to rebuild.”

Michelle Dack says her younger sister knows she is one of the lucky ones, able to return to life in a much safer, stable country. “She knows it’s because of the kindness and generosity of the Nepalese that she survived,” she says, adding McLeod hopes to raise funds to help those who helped her.

“Tamara has a gift for making people feel so loved, so heard and so acknowledged,” she says, returning the praise she received only hours earlier via Facebook: “She is a blessing.”

vfortney@calgaryherald.com

twitter.com/valfortney
</text>