<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-05-01/wirsu-will-kathmandu-ever-be-the-same-again/6436888
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Will Kathmandu ever be the same again?
</headline>

<text>
Will Kathmandu ever be the same again?

Updated

Piia Wirsu was visiting Nepal as a tourist when the earthquake hit. She says a semblance of normality is slowly returning to Kathmandu, but she wonders if this city of cracked walls and leaning buildings will ever be the same again.

Slowly people begin to filter back to the shreds of life that were dropped when the earthquake struck. People return to shops and can be seen shaking glass out of picture frames, sweeping tea and broken ornaments from floors, righting toppled cabinet displays, and salvaging bottles of beer and wine and whiskey, the smell of alcohol like day old nightclub wafting out onto the street.

The quietness that was filled only by the cawing of crows, helicopters buzzing overhead and distant sirens gradually fills with the hum and squeal of cars and motor bikes, and talk begins to fill the air, floating tentatively up into the recently rain-cleared sky.

Shutters are rolled back and lives are resumed.

But it will be a quieter city that tries to assume normal life in this city of cracked walls and leaning buildings, which no one can fix. Over 400,000 people have left the valley of Kathmandu, driven by the fear of aftershocks, which continue to ripple across the city. There is also the fear of disease as streets pile with rubbish and 100 people use a single toilet as they continue to camp, sheltering like mice under tarps dripping in the rain.

Some go to take shelter, clothing and food to their loved ones in the districts as news of their villages reaches them, news of relatives wet and muddy with only what they had on their backs when the earthquake struck. People go to comfort, console and grieve, to provide support and help that will come from nowhere else.

Still more wait to leave - buses are full to bursting, people cling to the sides and leap to the roof in an effort to leave on the meagre public transport.

Power is restored, although power lines still lie across roads, cars, buildings and trees like strings of Christmas lights that have burnt out. Lines stretch back for hours as people wait for fuel so they might leave, visit loved ones or check their homes.

Someone arriving in Kathmandu now might be forgiven for drifting past the changes, oblivious. A few more shuttered shops, a few less people. But when one stops, sits with the man on the step or talks to the shop keepers who gaze warily out of their shops like bears in a cave, the terror is there lurking like a sleeping monster.

Once they start talking, the stories release - not a single person has been untouched by the disaster. The words, slow and halting to start with, begin to flow, toppling over each other like puppies in play as they share their experience and give a voice to their story, which they are accustomed to being untold. Each face and voice carries the same insistence that their words be understood, their message told.

The relentless pull of normalcy tugs at the sides of the picture now; time moves relentlessly on and those that don't follow fall behind.

But one cannot help wondering, what happens in a week, a month, six months? What happens when the news crews leak away to other stories, other disasters, other tragedies?

The picture that is left seems to me to be like that of a pottery vase which has been shattered and glued back together. The joins are never quite the same, pieces are missing, and the shape is slightly different.

It is still a vase, but it is not quite the vase it was.

This article was originally published on Piia Wirsu's blog. You can read more about her experience in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake.

Piia Wirsu is a casual producer for ABC Northern Tasmania.

How can I help? The ABC and Oxfam are running an appeal to help quake-hit people in Nepal.

Donate at www.oxfam.org.au/nepalearthquake or phone 1800 034 034.

Topics: earthquake, relief-and-aid-organisations, international-aid-and-trade

First posted
</text>