<url>
http://www.montereyherald.com/general-news/20150430/carmel-valley-woman-raises-money-for-nepal-victims
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Carmel Valley woman raises money for Nepal victims
</headline>

<text>
A statue and altar seem to be all that remain of this area of Pattam, a section of Kathamandu, Nepal, devastated by last week’s 7.8-magnitude earthquake. Carmel Valley business owner Christine Kolisch is trying to raise money for quake victims. Mitch Silver - Contributed

CARMEL VALLEY >> A Carmel Valley Village business owner with close ties to Nepal has established a charity that will send funds directly to earthquake victims there.

Christine Kolisch, owner of Cheppu From Himalaya, has been in contact with many Nepalese friends since the devastating 7.8-magnitude quake there on Saturday. While her friends are safe, they are facing critical shelter, food and water needs.

“They have a very dysfunctional government and people are angry and upset with their government,” Kolisch said. “I got an email from a close friend who said the only people being effective in relief are individuals, local clubs and small organizations, so we are working with them.”

Kolisch’s acquaintances also have reflected what news reports have said about the Nepalese government’s response: aid has come mainly to cities of Kathmandu and Gorkha, with little aid getting to villages. Many bodies have yet to be recovered, creating a health issue. Planes attempting to deliver supplies have been turned away because of disorganized plans to distribute aid.

Kolisch is not the only one stepping forward to help. Local Salvation Army chapters are collecting donations, and on May 14, the Middlebury Institute of International Studies is holding a benefit at Cibo Ristorante Italiano in downtown Monterey.

Kolisch’s compassion for Nepal’s quake victims is personal. She lived there for 13 years, operating an art gallery in Kathmandu from 1972 to 1985. She has a fair trade agreement in Nepal, allowing her to import and design clothing and handicrafts from the country. Finally, her son Bodhi Garrett, who now lives in Thailand, was born there.

Kolisch also is involved in sponsoring Nepalese students through a charity that helps pay for their schooling in that country — of 34 students being sponsored, three are by Kolisch. She is also involved in a program helping women farmers grow organic crops, but their small village outside Kathmandu, made up of multi-story mud brick houses, has collapsed, Kolisch said.

When she heard about the earthquake, she, her son and her husband, Craig Lovell, immediately put a 501(c)3 charity together, available online at www.wehelpnepal.org. Kolisch said 100 percent of the money the charity raises will go directly to quake victims.

It’s not the first time Kolisch has been involved in such an effort. Ten years ago, during the devastating tsunami in Thailand, her son set up a relief fund for victims and she helped network with U.S. residents to raise money.

“We found that you have to respond immediately … and it has to happen quickly or it goes out of people’s mentality,” she said.

Advertisement

Making matters worse in Nepal were the many earthquake aftershocks, some as strong at 6.0, that kept people from returning to shelters that weren’t destroyed.

One man, Kolisch said, had 50 people camped outside of his home. He gave them food and water but he ran out and it had begun to rain. People from outer villages who have made it to cities have found it difficult to obtain aid, she added.

While trying to contact a Nepalese friend by telephone, Kolisch dialed the number incorrectly. She got another man she didn’t know but asked him if he and his family were OK. “He said, ‘By the grace of God, yes,’ ” Kolisch said.

The man started to cry.

“And he said, ‘I cannot tell you how much it helps to know that people so far away care.’ The fact that we care means a tremendous amount to them,” Kolisch said.
</text>