<url>
http://www.piratefm.co.uk/news/latest-news/1602270/photos-cornish-aid-workers-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
PHOTOS: Cornish Aid Workers in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
5:28pm 1st May 2015

(Updated 5:28pm 1st May 2015)



Cornish teams have sent back the latest pictures from the Nepal Earthquake zone - as they set to work.



Aid workers from Helston based Shelterbox have arrived to assess how they can help some of the million and a half people who need help.



Response team volunteer for UK charity ShelterBox, Becky Maynard, flew into Kathmandu on Wednesday evening with colleague Liz Odell to join the charity’s team already in Nepal. She and her team-mates spent much of yesterday collaborating with other aid agencies and the Nepal government, planning how best to help the estimated 3.5 million in need of shelter.



On an assessment in Kathmandu Becky found Santa Maharjan, who has been sheltering under a tarpaulin with her six children and seven adults, including her elderly mother. Like thousands of other families they have been sleeping outdoors for six cold, damp nights, while the ground still rumbles with aftershocks. Becky says, ‘We were the first agency they have seen.’



‘They were in their house when the earthquake happened. Although the house isn’t completely flattened the family cannot go back in. The roof is partially collapsed and they have shored up one wall with bamboo poles, but it is bulging dangerously and any aftershock could cause it to collapse completely.’



‘The young children run around with a cooking pot to collect rain water that has gathered in their tarpaulin – this is the only way they can get water to drink.’



There is widespread power shortage. The lucky ones may have access to a generator, but otherwise this is a bleak existence. Food and water are also scarce, although some markets are beginning to reopen. With plunging temperatures, thunderstorms, and the onset of the monsoon season, shelter is a pressing concern. Sanitation is poor, and countless bodies lie unseen under the rubble, so there is the potential for disease.



ShelterBox tents that were already located in Kathmandu when the earthquake struck have been quickly deployed to four of the city’s hospitals. They are being used as outdoor clinics, and for minor operations on wounded people, as the hospital buildings themselves have been branded unsafe.



ShelterBox has already dispatched aid - an initial 500 shelter kits (containing tools, tarpaulins and fixings to make rudimentary shelters, or to make damaged roofs watertight) and 500 (UN specification) tents to Kathmandu, expected to arrive in Nepal by Monday.



Becky says, ‘The camps that have grown ad hoc in open spaces are really inadequate for the sort of weather conditions we are experiencing. Most families have been sheltering under plastic sheeting, and it has been raining quite a lot. Everyone is in need, but our first goal has to be to support lifesaving work, such as the distribution of aid to hospitals. Then we will be looking towards the rural communities, where up to 90% of buildings and infrastructure have been damaged, and hospitals completely destroyed, so we are really focusing on the logistics of getting aid to those more remote areas.’





5:28pm 1st May 2015
</text>