<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-pakistan-beef-relief-mail-today-beef-masala/1/433109.html
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Pakistan ducks after beef relief blunder
</headline>

<text>
A day after Mail Today broke the story about Pakistan sending food packets containing 'beef masala' to earthquake-hit Nepal as part of its aid package, Islamabad tried hard to save face amid severe criticism on the social media(@Mail_Today#BeefRelief).

Initially, the Pakistan government sought to pass the buck and said its Air Force was responsible for distributing the food packets and, hence, the government wasn't at fault.

Later in the day, it retracted the statement and said the food packets clearly mentioned the contents in English as well as in Urdu, and left it for the people to choose whether they wanted to eat it.

Even after repeated attempts, Pakistan's National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) spokesperson Ahmed Kamal did not answer any calls or messages by Mail Today.

Tasneem Aslam, spokesperson for Pakistan's ministry of foreign affairs, told Headlines Today on Thursday: "Yesterday, we were asked by the Indian media regarding the inclusion of beef in the food packets. The Meal Ready-to-Eat (MRE) is a pre-packed kit of 20 items for a full day's meals.

"On every packet inside the kit the name of the dish is clearly written in English and Urdu so that people may choose whether to eat or discard it. Both the languages are understood in Nepal.

The Nepalese authorities found the MREs so effective that they have especially requested for a full plane load of MREs on priority," she added.

However, Nepal officials categorically appealed to Pakistan against sending more such packets for the quake survivors.

After photographs of the food packets were circulated on the social media, Nepal health minister Khagraj Adhikari told Headlines Today: "We appeal to Pakistan's government to not ignore the cultural and religious sentiments of Nepal. People should think about our religious and cultural sentiments before sending such food packets."

Nepal earthquake survivors check food packets sent by Pakistan in Kathmandu on Thursday.

Senior MP and Congress Working Committee member (Nepali Congress) Shekhar Koirala told Mail Today: "We have come to know through news reports and an internal inquiry about the beefcontaining food packets from Pakistan.

We have identified and kept aside the cartons carrying these controversial food items. We are in deep distress and cannot afford to be dragged into any diplomatic row. But we have sounded Pakistan that they should be watchful while sending consignments."

The local Nepalese population has also come down heavily on Pakistan for sending beef into a country that treats cows as sacred. "We can't enter the Pashupatinath temple if we have eaten the beef masala even by mistake. We worship cows in our country," said Kavita, a Kathmandu resident.

"Whatever Pakistan has done, it should apologise for it. We do not eat beef in Nepal. This is a time of crisis, and no one should take advantage of it," Ashok, another local said.

Doctors at Bir Hospital in Kathmandu told Mail Today that their access to the storage area of food items has been restricted after Mail Today broke the news on Thursday morning. "Now, no one is allowed to enter the place. The media's access has also been restricted," Dr Balwinder Singh said.

Meanwhile, senior RSS functionary Dattatreya Hosabale hit out at Pakistan for sending beef masala to Nepal. "I have heard about it. If true, it is highly insensitive and condemnable. The Nepal government should contemplate serious action against Pakistan. When we met the chief secretary of Nepal, he said they would examine everything that's being sent for the survivors," he told Headlines Today.

The first Civil Code of Nepal, the Muluki Ain of 1854, stated: "This kingdom is the only kingdom in the world where cows, women, and Brahmins may not be killed." It trumpeted Nepal as the 'purest Hindu kingdom' and simultaneously signaled to Nepalese citizens that Hindu religious creeds would be the law of the land.

But an amendment in 1990 to the Civil Code made cow slaughter punishable by 12 years in prison.


</text>