<url>
http://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/news/article.cfm?c_id=1&objectid=11441925
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 3 Kiwis still unaccounted for
</headline>

<text>
Three New Zealanders thought to have been missing in Nepal have contacted their families to let them know they're safe, as three still remain unaccounted for.

Almost a week after the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake which ravaged the land-locked Himalayan country, the number of dead and injured continues to rise.

The death toll has now exceeded 5500, with the number of injured totalling nearly 11,200.

Damaged infrastructure or lack of modern technology in remote regions has made contacting loved ones at home challenging for some people travelling or trekking in Nepal.

Advertisement

A number of Kiwis have been missing since Saturday's tremor, and it is believed three remain unaccounted for - Peter Curreen, 63 from Marlborough, Peter McLeod, 62, from Taupo, and Doug Sealy, 31, from Wellington.

However, NZME. News Service has today spoken to three families who have now received good news from the disaster zone.

Brad Robson, 32, from Taupo, was planning to summit Ama Dablam, a 6858m peak in the Khumbu region, when the quake struck. His family have since heard from base camp that the trekking group was safe and all accounted for.

It was "a huge relief", his father Quentin Robson said.

Joshua Dane Kenyon, 34, from Christchurch, was also confirmed safe today. His father Bruce Kenyon said he was "safe and sound".

"We are very happy that both he and his Nepalese family and friends are also safe and sound," he said.

William Seymour-Jones, 25, who was born in Wellington but now lives in Brisbane, was also okay, his mother Cate said.

Mr Seymour-Jones is now an Australian citizen, and was travelling on an Australian passport.

Meanwhile, a group of Christchurch schoolgirls has returned to New Zealand after surviving the earthquake.

The 26 students and four teachers from St Margaret's College have touched down in New Zealand tonight. They were met by parents and executive principal Gilliam Simpson at Christchurch Airport.

The pupils had been on a three week expedition with World Challenge, trekking and working to build a school near Kathmandu.

The groups was forced to fly via Guangzhou in China after their flight out of Kathmandu Airport was delayed due to aid taking priority.

St Margaret's student Maddie Read said it was a "big relief" to be home and she would sleep well tonight.

She described the moments after the quake struck.

"Straight after the earthquake struck our teacher came running up the hill to see if we were all okay," she said.

"It was just really unexpected and I was just shocked."

Her mum Kirstie Read said hearing about her daughter caught up in the event was terrifying, and it was an emotional reunion.

"Never been more worried in our lives. Just so far away and third world country, just yeah, terrifying."

Student Annie Larkin said the quake was like "going back in Christchurch all over again".

"We were running down a hill and it just started shaking and we just hugged each other and it was just like, 'It's starting all over again'."

She said everyone was happy to be home and the flight back had been "buzzing".

Health teacher Lisa Williams, who accompanied the students, said it was a relief to get the girls home safely.

She said being Cantabrians had helped to deal with the aftershocks.

"We were prepared for all those aftershocks and really the girls handled that really well. They have been absolutely incredible, absolutely amazing.

"They have had their moments of course, like all of us have, but as a group they handled it brilliantly."

She said the trip before the quake had been amazing and the Nepalese people had been fantastic. "They supported us as much as possible."

Principal Gillian Simpson said the quake had been a "huge worry" and the school was thrilled to have the group back.

"I think they will actually be busting to get back to raise some money for the people they met over there - that will be very important to them."

STILL UNACCOUNTED FOR

Peter Joseph Curreen, 63, Marlborough

Mr Curreen was thought to have been near Jiri, in the Dolakha District east of Kathmandu. It is believed he was most likely trekking by himself or a small unorganised group, and had been making his way to join a trek to Everest Base Camp. He not made contact with family last night.



Doug Sealy, 31, Wellington

Mr Sealy was volunteering as a teacher in India, and was due to travel to Kathmandu to renew his visa. His mother, Marie Grant of Wellington, last heard from her son the day before the earthquake, prior to his scheduled bus journey to the border. He has not been heard from since. However, a transaction on his credit card was dated April 28, which was viewed as a positive sign by Ms Grant.

Peter Donald McLeod, 62, Taupo

The Red Cross website earlier this week said Mr McLeod, known as Pete and born in Taupo, was yet to make contact with family, and was presumed missing. Last night Mr McLeod was no longer listed on the site as missing but was not confirmed as found either. Attempts to contact Mr McLeod have been unsuccessful.
</text>