<url>
http://www.kentonline.co.uk/sandwich/news/discovery-park-plea-for-nepal-36212/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Discovery Park employee makes plea for donations to Humanity First as father flies to Nepal to help after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
An employee at Discovery Park is making a special plea for donations to Humanity First as her father has flown out to Nepal to help after the earthquake.

Kelly Morgan, liaison manager at the Sandwich based investment product company GoBMV, has been spreading awareness amongst tenants at the enterprise zone.

The powerful earthquake measuring 7.8 on the Richter scale struck 40 miles from the capital of Kathmandu in Nepal on Saturday.

Miss Morgan's father, Dominic, is head of operations at Humanity First, a UK charity which has dispatched a response team including 12 medical volunteers to Nepal.

Mr Morgan, 51, from Bath, and his colleagues have self-funded flights and food to help the vulnerable people who have been left devastated by the disaster. They will ensure people get access to water, food, shelter and medical support.

Mr Morgan is the urgent care network leader for Bath and North East Somerset’s Clinical Commissioning Group at St Martin’s Hospital. He has worked with Humanity First in disasters in Pakistan, Haiti, Gambia and Uganda as well as Nepal.

Miss Morgan, 29, from Whitstable said: “I’m so proud of my Dad and the team of people he’s flown out with. They are all incredibly selfless and dedicated to the cause and I know they’ll do anything they can to help and support anyone who needs them. My thoughts are with them and all the families they will be helping over the next couple of weeks.

“Being Dominic’s daughter is such an honour for me but also so incredibly hard at times when we have to say goodbye to him.

“However, we know what good he is capable of and also know how selfish it would be to ask him to stay, when to help others, is innate in him. When he goes it’s extremely emotional, my sister Emma and I have been trying to channel that emotion into something positive and create awareness for the fantastic charity he feels so passionate about.

“My colleagues at GoBMV and everyone I’ve spoken to at Discovery Park have been really supportive – we’re a close knit community down here and I’ve been overwhelmed by people offering to help and promote awareness.”

The volunteers are the UK’s top surgeons, doctors and paramedics who give their time to help those who need it most and as they pay for their own flights and food, every penny raised goes straight to the people suffering.

Discovery Park is appealing to tenants, partners and friends to show support and donate to Humanity First’s recovery efforts.

Visit the website at uk.humanityfirst.org/donate or text NEPA60 £10 to 70070.

.
</text>