<url>
http://college.usatoday.com/2015/04/30/nepalese-students-mobilize-for-earthquake-relief-efforts/
</url>

<date>
20150501
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese students mobilize for earthquake relief efforts
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese are at a loss for words as the official death toll from the devastating April 25 earthquake surpasses 5,500.

The 7.9-magnitude earthquake wiped out historical monuments, flattened homes and villages and injured at least 11,175 injured victims, according to Nepal’s National Emergency Operation Centre.

“My mind cannot grasp the fact that the buildings I once visited near my dad’s home in Kathmandu are all destroyed,” said Shrasta Tamrakar, a junior at DePaul University in Chicago.

Approximately 1.7 million children are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance and aid, according to UNICEF reports.

The worst to hit Nepal in almost 80 years, Saturday’s earthquake left tens of thousands of people to occupy open spaces and temporary camps within Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, and neighboring cities.

Prakriti Maskey, an international student and president of the Nepali Student Association at St. Cloud University in Minnesota, says seeing her family suffering has proved devastating.

“All I can do is cry whenever I think about it,” Maskey says.

When Maskey first heard about the earthquake, she tried calling her mother. But the phone lines were inaccessible at the time. After several hours of constant worrying, Maskey said she received word from her relatives on Facebook about her mom’s safety.

Students across the nation have united their relief efforts to aid those affected by the quake.

Aakanchhya Tamrakar, vice president of the Nepalese Student Association (NSA) at the University of Virginia (UVA), says her fellow members wanted to help, but felt helpless in doing so.

After receiving the support of campus organizations and students, Tamrakar says the NSA responded by raising awareness and starting fundraising campaigns.

To raise money for hunger relief efforts, the NSA at UVA created a fundraising event, Stay Strong Nepal: Noms for Nepal, in partnership with three local restaurants A percentage of the proceeds will go toward United Nations World Food Programme.

“Everyone who was affected, my heart goes out to them,” Tamrakar says. “Seeing them hurt makes us hurt as well and that’s what really brought us together and inspired us to act.”

Without the support and passion of the community and students, Tamrakar says the fundraising events would not be possible. She says raising awareness is crucial at a time like this.

The day after the earthquake, Maskey says she called an emergency meeting for the NSA to check if any of the family members of Nepali students had been hurt. Maskey also brainstormed ideas with the organization for fundraising campaigns to initiate on campus.

Maskey says the fundraising efforts at her university thus far have included an art sale, a benefit concert and a candlelit vigil. After two days of fundraising, she says her organization raised close to $2,000 and donated the proceeds to the American Red Cross.

In addition to donations from people nationwide, Hillary Stroud, an American Red Cross media relations associate, says the American Red Cross is committing an initial $1 million of aid to those in Nepal. The American Red Cross will be work closely with the Nepal Red Cross as well as the Global Red Cross network to coordinate extra support in heavily-affected areas.

What’s more, the American Red Cross will send a highly trained team of disaster response specialists to Nepal to assist those in need and set up satellites so people can communicate with one another.

Students looking to help out have options, Stroud says. She recommends going digital – sharing information, online mapping and making donations.

The rising death toll has proved emotionally and psychologically challenging for those with connections to Nepal, Abiral Phnuyal, sophomore at New York University.

“We all need to make sure we cling onto a sense of community if we are going to get through all of this,” Phnuyal said.

Although there is no official Nepali student organization at DePaul University, Tamrakar says it will not deter her from starting a fundraising campaign on GoFundMe.

Shagun Pradhan, an alumnus of the University of the Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, plans to raise awareness and fundraise for Nepali victims by biking from Chicago, Ill., to Seattle, Wash. – a trip that’s approximately 2,233 miles. He then plans to travel to Nepal and donate money to its people.

Karan Usgaonkar, a sophomore studying computer engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, runs a non-governmental organization in Dubai called Rise for Nepal. It helps collect supplies needed by both the people of Nepal and the government from Dubai and Champaign-Urbana.

Usgaonkar says Rise for Nepal has infrastructures in Dubai to house the supplies, which will be later shipped to Kathmandu, Nepal.

“Finals come around probably eight times in the four years that we’re here, but an earthquake like this for the first time in 80 years doesn’t happen so often,” Usgaonkar says. “It’s important to realize the severity of the issue, the number of lives that are at stake and to come together as a community.”

With the Nepali Student Association at the U. of Illinois, university housing, various fraternities and other organizations on campus contributing, Usgaonkar says the work to collect supplies on campus has been proactive and successful.

Apoorva Lal, a senior studying economics and political science at Williams College in Massachusetts, says his first impulse after hearing about the earthquake was to go to Nepal to help. Lal said he is currently making plans to volunteer both in the capital and more rural areas after he graduates next month.

“I’ve been very impressed how quickly the Nepalese diaspora has resounded by helping in various ways,” Lal says. “Whether it is helping people get informed through social media or students helping out in fundraising.”
</text>