<url>
http://www.antaranews.com/en/news/98922/indonesias-dvi-team-to-find-indonesians-missing-in-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Indonesia`s DVI team to find Indonesians missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Indonesia`s DVI team to find Indonesians missing in Nepal

Jakarta (ANTARA News) - The Indonesian National Police Headquarters will send two personnel of the Disaster Victim Identification (DVI) team to Nepal to assist in the identification of earthquake victims.



"Indonesian National Police Headquarters will send a DVI team in coordination with the Foreign Affairs Ministry. They will identify the earthquake victims and look for the Indonesian citizens missing in Nepal," Sr. Comr. Krisna Murti, the head of the special task force, stated here on Wednesday.



The personnel comprise Commissioner Eko Yunianto and Commissioner M. Faizal. They are forensic experts who are working in medicine and the health department.



They are specialists in the field of forensic identification. Primary data such as fingerprints, teeth, and DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) are used for the identification of victims.



Apart from the primary data, identification can also be carried out using secondary data such as medical characteristics and injury marks on the body.



The DVI team will join the international forensic teams to identify the bodies that could not be recognized in some hospitals in Nepal.



The team will attempt to find the three Indonesians: Alma Parahita, Kadek Andana, and Jeroen Hehuwat who are still missing in Nepal.



The three Indonesian climbers went missing on Mount Everest after a powerful 7.9-magnitude earthquake jolted Nepal last Saturday morning.



"The team is equipped with antemortem data belonging to the three Indonesians who went missing in Nepal," he said.



The data comprises medical data, teeth, DNA, and the physical characteristics of the Indonesian climbers.



Earlier, the Indonesian Ministry of Social Affairs had revealed that it will send 4.5 thousand blankets to the earthquake victims in Nepal, according to Natural Disasters Victims Protection Director Margowiyono.



"The blankets will be delivered this week along with other humanitarian aid," Margowiyono stated here on Monday.



"We received a letter from the National Disaster Mitigation Agency (BNPB), and we have an existing stock of blankets in our warehouses," he noted.



The blankets were sent from a warehouse in Palembang as the stock in another warehouse was insufficient.



"We had only sent 4.5 thousand blankets as we have to maintain our stock. Previously, we had sent seven thousand blankets to Vanuatu," he pointed out.



The Indonesian government has sent humanitarian aid to Nepal in the form of food and medicines including surgeons. Indonesias volunteer team also established a hospital to treat the victims.



Some 7 thousand people were killed, and more than 14 thousand were injured.



According to UN figures, the earthquake has damaged 600 thousand houses or buildings in the countrys capital, Kathmandu.



In addition, some two million people need tents, water, food, and medicines for three months.(*)
</text>