<url>
http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/26/asia/nepal-earthquake/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Death toll rises above 3,200
</headline>

<text>
As the rescue and recovery efforts continue, many charities and NGOs are sending teams, aid and medical assistance. Click here to find out about the organizations you can assist.

Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN) The death toll from the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal two days ago surged past 3,000 on Monday, a government official said. The desperate search for survivors from the country's worst natural disaster in more than 80 years continued.

The number of people confirmed dead in Nepal stands at 3,218, said Nepalese Ministry of Home Affairs spokesman Laxmi Dhakal. India has reported 56 deaths, and China another 20.

The death toll is expected to climb further as officials get information from the rugged countryside that makes up most of Nepal.

As day broke Monday, Nepal was still in survival mode after suffering a series of aftershocks following the huge initial quake on Saturday.

The damage was everywhere. Stunned residents wandered the streets of Kathmandu, the capital city of roughly 3 million people that's now the focus of international disaster relief efforts.

Video shows survivor pulled from rubble

People dug through piles of debris where their homes once stood, seeking pieces of their former lives and, possibly, family members. Many of the injured were treated outside overflowing hospitals, where crowds of people gathered looking for relatives.

Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64

Dhakal, the government spokesman, said Monday 6,525 people were reported to have been injured.

One video aired on Nepal State Television captured a rare bright moment amid the death and devastation.

It shows uniformed officers digging though rubble, desperately trying to free a man who is hurt but alive. Rescuers lift him up, and cheers of joy erupt from the crowd. The clip shows him being put on a stretcher and carried to safety.

But often, searchers have found bodies rather than survivors. And the odds of saving the living decrease as the crucial first 72 hours tick by.

Panorama of devastation

The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation.

"The journey towards my family home in Sitapaila was a map of quake destruction, with many houses -- old and new -- torn apart," wrote freelance journalist Sunir Pandey

"A high wall surrounding a monastery had collapsed and the nuns had run to a nearby field," he wrote. "A mud-and-brick cottage had fallen on a blue motorbike but no trace could be found of its rider. Everywhere, survivors gathered wherever they could find open space -- fields, private compounds, empty roadside lots."

At night, many Nepalis slept in the open, shivering in the frigid air of the Himalayan Mountains but at least safe from falling debris.

"The entire city was under darkness," Christina Berry of England wrote for CNN affiliate IBN from Kathmandu. "There was not a single light anywhere. The power supply had been cut off. Our caring hotel manager gave us some food and some candles, too. Me and Alexandra were so scared. We slept in the open verandah of the hotel fearing more quakes in the night."

People banding together to survive

CNN producer Ingrid Formanek, who arrived Sunday night, said Kathmandu "looks like a city where buildings have been abandoned. People are hanging out in public squares and at intersections to avoid rubble from buildings."

JUST WATCHED Nepal: A nation in ruins Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Nepal: A nation in ruins 01:41

"We were able to drive the main road to the hotel we're staying at, but they're not allowing anyone inside because of the aftershocks. The guests are in a big tent used for functions on the lawn. People are squeezed in. There are probably about 100 people in there," Formanek said. "The tents are covered, but water is seeping in from streets puddled with water, especially around the edges of the tent."

Residents of Kathmandu are banding together to get by, with stores shuttered and very few sources of food and drinkable water.

"Communal kitchens have been set up for cooking," Formanek said. "Not by the government -- people set them up on their own."

Aftershocks add to fears

Many of the city's centuries-old buildings, which had stood stalwart for generations and provided a sense of national pride, have been toppled.

JUST WATCHED Strong aftershock hits Kathmandu during interview Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Strong aftershock hits Kathmandu during interview 01:54

Dozens of bodies were pulled from Dharahara, the historic nine-story tower that came crashing down during the quake. A backhoe chipped away at the nub left protruding through its crumbled ruins.

When it seemed as if things couldn't get worse, a powerful aftershock jolted Nepal on Sunday, sending people screaming into the streets and causing new injuries for already traumatized residents. Climbers said it set off fresh avalanches on Mount Everest, where at least 17 people were reported to have been killed on Saturday.

The magnitude of the new quake Sunday was initially estimated at 6.7 by the U.S. Geological Survey, considerably weaker than the magnitude-7.8 of the devastating one of a day earlier.

Four U.S. citizens among dead

Four Americans were confirmed to be among the dead.

Marisa Eve Girawong, who went by her middle name, of New Jersey also was killed by an avalanche on Everest. The physician's assistant was working as an Everest base camp doctor for Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering , when she was swept away to her death.

Tom Taplin, a filmmaker from Santa Monica, California, was making a documentary on Everest climbers, when wind stirred by the avalanche caused him to take a fall, CNN affiliate KABC reported.

Relief effort faces challenges

The mountains that define Nepal make it difficult to deliver relief, though international efforts are in full swing. Aftershocks are also complicating operations.

A team of 260 emergency responders was about an hour away from departure at Israel's Ben Gurion Airport when an aftershock in Kathmandu delayed its departure.

The U.S. Agency for International Development's Disaster Response Team, made up of 54 urban search and rescue specialists from Fairfax County, Virginia, and six K-9s, headed to Nepal on Sunday on a C-17 military transport plane. The dogs are trained to find signs of life in rubble after a disaster.

But the trip was expected to take about 24 hours, reducing the precious hours left in which survivors are likely to be found.
</text>