<url>
http://zeenews.india.com/news/uttar-pradesh/char-dham-tourist-spots-in-uttarakhand-safe-minister_1594674.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Char Dham, tourist spots in Uttarakhand safe: Minister
</headline>

<text>
Dehradun: Dismissing apprehensions of visitors planning to cancel their bookings for Uttarakhand in the wake of the latest earthquake in Nepal, the state government on Wednesday said Char Dham yatra routes and all tourist spots are absolutely safe and there is no need to worry.

The fresh wave of tremors in Nepal yesterday has generated fear in the minds of tourists and pilgrims bound for Uttarakhand, who are now in a mood to cancel their bookings to different destinations across the state, Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Dinesh Dhanai said.

The state government has received several calls from prospective visitors wanting to know whether their visit to the hill state will be safe.

Even private tour operators, who have made the bookings, are inquiring about the situation.

"But there is no need to fear as Char Dham yatra and all the places of tourist interest across the state are absolutely safe. Those planning to visit Uttarakhand can go anywhere in the state without any trouble," Dhanai said.

He said that the state government is "fully prepared" to deal with any natural calamity including quakes.

We have the State Disaster Response Force besides a well- oiled disaster mitigation and management machinery which has been directed to evacuate pilgrims and tourists in case of a crisis," the minister said, in a bid to instil confidence among visitors bound for the hill state.

Describing tourist arrivals in the state since the start of the Char Dham yatra season this year on April 21 as "encouraging", Dhanai said so far 1,15,162 devotees have visited Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri.

A total of only 2.5 lakh devotees could make to the four Himalayan shrines in the entire yatra season last year.

All arrangements have been made on the yatra route for the convenience of pilgrims.

Apart from the trek route, chopper services are also available for pilgrims.

Chopper services are available from ten places, including Fata and Guptkashi in Rudraprayag district, which the devotees can avail of at a cost of Rs 7,000 per head, he said.

Yatra to the famous Sikh shrine of Hemkund Sahib in Garhwal Himalayas will also begin on June 1 and work on snow clearance from the trek route between Govindghat and the Gurudwara will be over by May 17-18.

The Chief Minister will flag off the first batch of pilgrims for the shrine from Govindghat on May 31, he said.
</text>