<url>
http://foxct.com/2015/05/13/connecticut-nepalese-group-to-travel-to-nepal-to-help-with-rescue-efforts/
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Local Nepalese association sends volunteers to help with earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

BRANFORD-- The search continues for survivors of Monday's deadly earthquake in Nepal, the second powerful quake to hit the country in less than a month.

The death toll stands at 65 people, and north of the capitol the search continues for a U.S. Marine helicopter that went missing while delivering aid on Tuesday.

U.S. aid efforts continue on the ground, backed by the U.N. and at least 12 other countries, as well as local volunteers from the United States.

Connecticut has a sizable Nepalese community--many with strong ties to their home country and with loved ones lost in the earthquake. The Branford-based chapter of Society of Nepalese in America is sending a team of volunteers to Nepal to help with earthquake relief.

Three members of the Branford-based chapter arrived safely in Nepal on Monday, not long before the aftershock hit. A fourth volunteer, Lincoln Everest, a 52-year-old Branford resident, will travel on Friday to Kathmandu, Nepal's capital city.

Everest, who spent half is life in Nepal, is hoping to make a difference at a time when it's most needed.

"My mother is still there, my brother still there, my sister is still there," Everest said.

Everest will serve as a volunteer coordinator during the group's trip. Everest said the group plans on assisting local media, government officials, doctors and other volunteers on the ground.

Everest said he plans to donate his own money to help build hundreds of temporary housing structures for the large population in Nepal who are now homeless. "99 percent of the houses are damaged in Kathmandu and different parts of the village in the area," said Everest.

The volunteer group will distribute the $42,583 it has raised in the several weeks since the massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit the country last month. The Society of Nepalese in America has received donations for its "Earthquake Relief Fund for Nepal" from 229 people, according to the organization's website.

The organization is asking for more people to make a donation on its website. Members are also asking for people to donate first aid kits and medicine for those in-need.

"We have five or six districts of the hardest hit areas that area we're going to help the people directly," said Ram Hari Bhandari, president of the Branford chapter of the Society of Nepalese in America.

The earthquakes have claimed the lives of more than 8,000 in Nepal, including two of Bhandari's extended family members, both killed in Tuesday's aftershock.

"People lost their family members, people are losing everything," Bhandari said.

Many members of the local Nepalese community were in Napal during the first earthquake, and their spouses say they came back traumatized by the experience.

"I'm very happy my wife is back, but she couldn't walk, because she saw so many things there, it shocked me," said Nabin Rana of Branford.

Everest says he plans to spend three weeks volunteering in Nepal and is planning to stay longer if needed.

"Whatever I can do for them," Everest said.
</text>