<url>
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/nepal-earthquake-communication-problems-make-number-missing-new-zealanders-unclear-1442906
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: Communication Problems Make Number Of Missing New Zealanders 'Unclear'
</headline>

<text>
Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015.

Rescue workers search for bodies as a stretcher is kept ready after an earthquake hit, in Kathmandu, Nepal April 25, 2015. Reuters/Navesh Chitrakar

New Zealand’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has confirmed that about 100 New Zealanders are registered in Nepal but no one was reported seriously injured during the recent earthquake. Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully said problems with communication had made it challenging to confirm how many more Kiwis are left unaccounted for.

More than 2,700 people have reportedly died following a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. At least 35 people have been killed India and one death reported in Bangladesh.

“We have no information at this stage suggesting New Zealand casualties but given the scale of what happened there, we’re obviously apprehensive and want to make sure that we track everyone down as quickly as we can,” said McCully. However, 10 New Zealanders have been reported missing in Nepal by their families in the Redcross Families Link website, reports Radio NZ. The International Committee of the Red Cross created the website after the disaster that would allow relatives to report missing family members in Nepal. Other people can also use the website to indicate they are safe from harm.

A spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said communications infrastructure is likely down due to the damage caused by the massive quake. TVNZ said the ministry encourages people who are concerned about a New Zealander in Nepal to try and make direct contact.

Meanwhile, the New Zealand government has pledged $1 million (AU$970 million) in aid to Nepal. New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said Kiwis felt deeply connected to Nepal and aid would be mainly distributed through the Red Cross. He revealed that although New Zealand was not asked to provide aid, the prime minister believes it was the “right thing” to do.

New Zealand is also considering sending a search and rescue team to help in the recovery effort. Christchurch Mayor Lianne Dalziel will be meeting with councilors in a few days to discuss a coordinated response to the earthquake in Nepal.

She said Christchurch’s own earthquake experience has made the people living in the area aware of the trauma the Nepalese would facing. The mayor said a fund raising effort will be coordinated by the council.

(To report problems or leave feedback on this article, contact: r.su@ibtimes.com.au
</text>