<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150513/jsp/northeast/story_19738.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Fresh quake sparks panic in region
</headline>

<text>
Members of the relief team after their return from Nepal. Picture by Pranab Kumar Das Guwahati, May 12: An earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale at 12.35pm and the subsequent aftershocks led to panic and many here rushed out of their homes for safety - a behaviour that disaster management experts have said is not advisable during a tremor. "People living in multi-storeyed buildings should not come out during a quake. Those inside their homes or offices should stay inside, drop, cover or hold onto sturdy furniture to reduce damage. If they can't get under furniture, move to an archway and sit with your back to the wall, bring your knees to your chest and cover the head. People should remain inside till the shaking subsides," said Jayanta Pathak, a professor of Assam Engineering College's civil engineering department here at Jalukbari. It is surprising to see people still coming out of their homes during today's tremor though the disaster management department has been advising against it to reduce damage during an earthquake, he wondered. Pathak, however, said those living in single-storeyed house could come out carefully. Men, women and children were seen taking the stairs and coming out of their buildings here, though the awareness campaigns through of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) advised people to remain indoors during an earthquake. "If the tremors are severe and they detect any crack on the walls, they should call an engineer to check the severity of the damage," Pathak said. Although people remained tense, the authority said no report of damage because of today's earthquake was reported so far. "We checked with our district disaster management control rooms but no such damage has been reported so far. But we have asked the deputy commissioner of Kamrup (metro) district to carry out a survey to find out if there is any damage during today's earthquake," ASDMA chief executive officer P.K. Tiwari told The Telegraph. "There is no such damage but we will carry out an assessment," Kamrup (metro) deputy commissioner M. Angamuthu said. In the evening, a thunder squall with wind speed exceeding 60km per hour, hit the city today. The department had also issued a warning about occurrence of heavy rain at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya today and Wednesday. A thunder squall with wind speed exceeding 60km per hour was also predicted at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Tripura yesterday and today. However, the weather department said this thunder squall had no relation with the earthquake that shook the city today. "Occurrence of thunder squalls is a normal phenomenon during March, April and May in the northeastern region. The thunder squall was a local development that had occurred over Dhubri and then moved towards Guwahati. It has no relation with the earthquake that occurred during the day. There is probability of a storm occurring in isolated places of the northeastern states. In Meghalaya, a thunder squall has already occurred in Tura today," said an official of the Regional Meteorological Centre here at Borjhar. The army's medical relief team, which was sent to Nepal for medical aid to the quake victims, returned to Tezpur last evening after successfully completing its mission. Three teams from Indian Army Medical Corps were dispatched to Nepal on April 26. Lt Col Sombit Ghosh, the defence spokesperson based in Tezpur, said the teams included 4004 field hospital, 4 Corps, Tezpur, 4033 field hospital, 33 Corps, Sukhna, and 60 Parachute field hospital, Agra. "Each army team comprised 10 doctors, including a surgeon, orthopaedic, medical specialist and an anaesthetist and Col Alok D. Sen, commanding officer of 4004 field hospital, was designated as the team leader," he said. Additional reporting by Pranab Kumar Das & Barnali Handique
</text>