<url>
http://www.thehindu.com/news/international/south-asia/nepal-parliament-passes-relief-resolution-unanimously/article7202077.ece
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Parliament passes relief resolution unanimously
</headline>

<text>
more-in

The Legislature-Parliament on Wednesday unanimously passed the commitment motion called for integrated approach to distribution of relief to those affected by the earthquake victims.

All the 25 political parties and the two independent MPs passed the motion. The parties had jointly tabled the motion on May 9 to express solidarity with those affected by the earthquake on April 25. More than 8,000 people were killed and over 17,000 injured due that earthquake and its aftermath.

Meanwhile, the death toll in Tuesday’s tremor reached 76, according to police. Of this, the toll in Dolakha district, the most affected one on Tuesday, alone is 56. The jolt has left nearly 2,400 injured.

The National Seismological Centre recorded 14 quakes of over 4 Magnitude on Wednesday alone, until 5 p.m. The one at 3.10 a.m. was of 5.8 magnitude.

Modi speaks to Koirala

Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he had a telephone conversation with his Nepali counterpart, Sushil Koirala. “I assured PM Koirala of all possible co-operation from our side in the wake of the earthquake,” PM Modi said, through a post on his official Twitter platform.

Police urges not to spread rumours

With the aftershocks creating panic, Nepal Police urged people not to share any “baseless” information. “We urge all (to) stop sharing/posting (earthquake) related baseless information on their social networks and prevent them going viral,” it posted on its official Twitter handle.

Rumours of stronger quakes did the round on Wednesday as well, adding to the panic. Many people stayed outdoors, with or without any shed or tent.

People had been staying in makeshift tents for over a week right since the earthquake of April 25. The quake and its aftermath has claimed more 8,000 lives and left over 17,000 injured.

US chopper not found

Meanwhile, a U.S. helicopter with eight soldiers on board has still not been found, the government said on Wednesday. The helicopter, with six American Marines and two Nepal Army personnel, had gone to Dolakha, epicentre of Tuesday’s aftershock, on a search and rescue mission.

Despite some online portals saying it has been found, government officials have denied it. Spokesperson of Home Ministry, Laxmi Prasad Dhakal said that they were still searching for the missing chopper.

It last came into contact with Kathmandu airport at 3 p.m.

India announces 7-day gratis transit from Nepal

Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) announced another free transit to India for stranded foreigners in Nepal.

“Foreigners stranded in Nepal will be given 7-day gratis transit permit at Embassy of India, Kathmandu or on arrival today onwards,” the embassy said.
</text>