<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/news-release-operation-usa-ship-relief-supplies-nepal-following-second-major-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Operation USA to Ship Relief Supplies to Nepal Following Second Major Earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Los Angeles-based non-governmental agency delivering material aid and cash grants to partner agencies

Los Angeles, Calif., May 12, 2015– Operation USA, a Los Angeles-based international relief agency, announced today that it will ship three sea containers of material aid supplies to Nepal, and will continue to assess needs in the country and surrounding areas following the magnitude 7.3 earthquake that struck the country on Tuesday. The agency, which began readying relief supplies and distributing emergency cash grants following a magnitude 7.8 earthquake on April 25, will call on long standing partnerships in the country to facilitate the distribution of aid.

Tuesday’s earthquake was centered roughly 47 miles east of the nation’s capital, Kathmandu, and was felt in parts of India, Tibet, and Bangladesh. The quake and subsequent aftershocks furthered structural damage in areas already devastated by the April 25th quake, and caused dozens of deaths and thousands of injuries, adding to the 8,000 dead and 14,000 injured as a result of the earlier tremor. As of Tuesday afternoon, aftershocks registering as high as magnitude 5.0 and landslides continued to exacerbate damage and further weaken infrastructure.

Following the magnitude 7.8 earthquake in April, Operation USA distributed a major grant to partner organizations Brother’s Brother Foundation and Himalayan Healthcare. OpUSA also received several donations of in-kind materials from corporate partners, and will deliver those materials—including medical supplies and equipment, power generators and lighting equipment, hygiene items and shelter materials—to partner organizations in Nepal in the weeks ahead.

As needs become increasingly urgent in Nepal, Operation USA is calling for continued donations to aid in recovery efforts and funding for grant distribution to local agencies in Nepal. The NGO is also seeking corporate partners to provide donated in-kind supplies of which there will be high need in areas affected by the earthquakes.

“We have worked tirelessly to coordinate a major shipment to Nepal while facing several logistical setbacks in the country, and are grateful to the corporate partners and donors who have made it possible,” said Richard Walden, CEO, Operation USA. “At this time, donations are even more crucial to recovery efforts as a second massive earthquake has rocked the country. We need the help of the public to deliver much needed relief and recovery supplies now, and to help them rebuild on the long road to recovery in the future.”

While foreign aid commitments are increasing in the wake of the second earthquake, relief and recovery efforts continue to move slowly due to logistical challenges, including damaged roads, collapsed bridges, a lack of airport access, reduced capacity at hospitals, and chaotic conditions.

Operation USA has worked in Nepal since the mid 1980s, and has previously delivered donated medicines to a children’s hospital in Kathmandu and SEVA, a vision care organization. The organization maintains relationships with partner organizations on the ground through which recovery aid will be distributed.

OpUSA would like to thank and acknowledge corporate partners currently supporting relief efforts: United Airlines, Cascade Designs (Therma-a-Rest, MSR, Platypus, SealLine, and Packtowl), Servicon Systems, Inc., Owens & Minor, Pelican Products, Helly Hansen, Zephyr Graf-X, Microbroo LLC, Investment Technology Group, Inc., American Apparel and Vans.
</text>