<url>
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/nepal/11601411/Nepal-hit-by-another-earthquake-of-7.4-magnitude-US-Geological-Survey-says-live.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Second Nepal earthquake kills dozens - as it happened
</headline>

<text>
• At least 60 people have been reportedly killed in India, Nepal and Tibet • More than 1,100 injured in the disaster, reports say • Nepal hit by a 7.3 magnitude earthquake, US Geological Survey says • New Nepal earthquake - What we know so far • Shockwaves were felt as far as New Delhi and Dhaka • The epicentre is to the east of Kathmandu, close to China border

The news breaking on Wednesday morning is that the missing helicopter has been located, according to Nepal's National Emergency Operation Centre. However, details of its condition and that of the crew remain unclear.

USA helicopter found at Dolkha, Sunkhani Tatopani and 4 helicopters are mobilized to search (Com. lost due to fogy environment May 12)

22.00

That will conclude our live coverage for today, thanks to everyone who followed along. All of today's stories can be found on our Nepal page, and we will be back at it tomorrow with the latest developments.

As we stand there are massive recovery efforts underway to aid victims of the latest earthquake in Nepal, and those affected by the larger earthquake last month. We are also hoping for good news regarding the US Marine helicopter that went missing tonight with eight people on board.

21.39

The death toll from today's tremors is now up to at least 68. Nepalese authorities say at least 50 people have been confirmed dead there, with at least 17 more people killed in India and one in Tibet. Those wounded number in the thousands.

20.57

A notice from the US Marines on the scale of their involvement in the rescue operation. Still no updates on the status of the helicopter.

UPDATE: JTF-505 #NepalQuake relief efforts by the numbers. The JTF continues support during Operation Sahayogi Haat. pic.twitter.com/Ny9cQAXslG — U.S. Marines (@USMC) May 12, 2015

20.25

Some additional details about the helicopter- it was delivering tarps and rice, and an Indian aircraft heard it report a possible fuel problem over the radio before the signal was lost.

Military officials say it's possible that the Marine aircraft landed in a low-lying area and was unable to get a signal out.

20.00

The village of Charikot, where the helicopter went missing, was among the areas hardest hit by today's quake. Medecins Sans Frontieres said they had treated at least 11 people injured in the village throughout the day.

Marines and Nepalese soldiers had landed to deliver supplies, and contact was lost shortly after they took off again. Military officials told AP that there was radio chatter about a fuel situation. It is unclear whether the helicopter in question was involved.

19.40

Here is the latest information on the helicopter:

The Marine aircraft went missing at 10pm local time (2pm BST) in the mountains of Nepal. There are six US marines and two Nepalese Army soldiers on board. As it is dark, Nepalese troops are conducting a ground search for the aircraft.

U.S. Army Col. Steve Warren told the Associated Press the UH-1Y Huey had dropped off supplies in one location and was en route to a second site when contact was lost. He said officials are hopeful that the aircraft is simply missing because there has been no smoke or other signs of a crash.

19.30

We're now resuming our live coverage as a US military helicopter with 8 people on board has gone missing in Nepal. We will have all the latest details as they come in.

18.05

Prabal Gurung, the Nepalese-American designer, has shared this tribute on his official Instagram account.

17.36

There are reports a US Army rescue helicopter has gone missing.

The Telegraph is unable to confirm the veracity of the reports.

A US Army rescue helicopter is reportedly missing for more than 6 hours with at least two Americans and a Nepali. #May12 #NepalQuake — Ujjwal Acharya (@UjjwalAcharya) May 12, 2015

17.17

Authorities in Nepal said at least 48 people were killed and more than 1,100 injured, while 17 people also died across the border in northern India.

Nepalese military personnel remove debris in search of survivors (Reuters)

16.31

The Foreign Secretary - who remains in that role after the Conservative win in this month's election - has offered his condolences and support to Nepal.

Thoughts are with all those in #Nepal. FCO staff are on the ground supporting Brits & we continue to do all we can to aid Nepal's recovery. — Philip Hammond (@PHammondMP) May 12, 2015

16.30

More from the news agencies on where people died.

An aid worker said at least 11 people had died in Sindhupalchowk and 100 were seriously injured in the district.

15.58

Wu Aijun, a police officer in neighbouring Nyalam County, told China's state-run news agency Xinhua he saw rocks rolling off the hills, writes Nicola Davison.

A landslide caused by the quake which struck China's neighbour Nepal in Gyirong Township, southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region

"Roads were cut off by debris from landslides," he said, adding that he could see across the border and a village in Nepal was also battered by landslides.

15.20

More about the damage in Tibet, China's state broadcaster China Central Television, has said two houses collapsed, quoting disaster relief headquarters of the regional Tibetan government.

AP also reported that the quake was was strongly felt in the Jilong and Zhangmu regions, felt a little in the Tibetan capital Lhasa.

15.00

Sean Casey, International Medical Corps’ Emergency response leader in Nepal has said hospitals were "generally" coping with the demand.

“International Medical Corps' assessment from Bakhtapur suggests we are not seeing heavy casualties there. The hospitals are generally coping with the increased demand but crowds urgently need shelter because many more buildings have been damaged.

“Our water, sanitation and hygiene experts are on their way to the area to distribute tarpaulins, which will at least provide temporary shelter for this evening.”

14.32

The quake also caused strong shaking across northern India, AP reports.

At least three people were killed when rooftops or walls collapsed on them in Bihar.

The state's disaster management secretary said the deaths occurred in Patna, Vaishali and Darbhanga districts, next to the border with Nepal.

14.10

Nepalese people take refuge on a street after an earthquake hit Kathmandu, Nepal (AP)

Pictures from Nepal showing the devastation.

Indian hospital staff and bystanders attend to a resident who fainted as a tremor struck at Siliguri Hospital in Siliguri (AFP/Getty)

13.49

The 7.3-magnitude earthquake is part of a chain reaction in a notorious seismic hotspot, scientists said, AFP writes.

Like buttons popping off one by one from a shirt that is ripped open, a large quake displaces stress to another part of a fault, causing it to rupture, they said.

"Large earthquakes are often followed by other quakes, sometimes as large as the initial one," said Carmen Solana, a volcanologist at Britain's University of Portsmouth.

"This is because the movement produced by the first quake adds extra stress on other faults and destabilises them," she told the Science Media Centre (SMC), a not-for-profit organisation based in London.

"It is a chain reaction."

13.15

Nepal's home ministry says the death toll has reached 42, AP reports.

13.12

Sanam Pathak via Twitter has told the Telegraph of his experience earlier today and the several aftershocks (unfortunately Skype and Viber did not work).

The computer engineer in Kathmandu says he saw collapsed buildings and a lot of traffic in the aftermath.

@RazAkkoc I was side of ringroad where lot of people are gathered who're afraid of major shock again and I can see lot of collapsed bulding — Sanam Pathak (@Desh_0_Premi) May 12, 2015

@RazAkkoc electricity is no more here in ktm,lot of cracked building due to many aftershock and major shock is no more now,all collapsed — Sanam Pathak (@Desh_0_Premi) May 12, 2015

@RazAkkoc many people is outside of home and all is in ring road,so much of traffic here in road and I can see collapsed building — Sanam Pathak (@Desh_0_Premi) May 12, 2015

The Telegraph cannot independently verify this information.

12.56

Here is a Google Maps animation with pictures and shows where the earthquake hit in Nepal.

12.52

Nepal's home ministry has raised the death toll from the latest quake to at least 36, while saying another 1,117 people had been injured, AP reports.

Information was slow to reach the capital after Tuesday's quake, but officials and aid workers said they expected the death toll to almost certainly rise.

12.42

The Chinese government's official Tibet microblog says that the earthquake has had a "great impact" on Nyalam County. Accompanying the post is a picture of a semi-destroyed traditional Tibetan dwelling, writes Nicola Davison in Shanghai.

According to Tibetan media, the 7.3 and 6.2 magnitude earthquakes in Nepal had a great impact on Tibet's Nyalam County, where houses collapsed and electricity was cut off.

Zhangmu [region] experienced landslides. So far Nyalam county's emergency rescue centre has transferred the public and officials to an open, flat space, and will further investigate the disaster situation."

Nyalam County is just 22km from the epicentre, and suffered multiple aftershocks.

From Tibet Online, a state-run news site: "He Junming, the head of Nyalam Border Patrol Inspection Station Command Centre, said on the phone that Disigang village in Zhangmu town where he is based felt a very strong tremor. Now the village sky is full of grey dust from the Nepal earthquake. As of 5:45pm, the locals had suffered 16 aftershocks, with flying rocks from landslides."

China's CCTV news reports that many of the houses damaged by the Nepal earthquake last month have now completely collapsed.

So many in Kathmandu had moved into their homes finally. Today's quake has dragged them out again. #NepalEarthquake pic.twitter.com/7xFHOn9e60 — Anup Kaphle (@AnupKaphle) May 12, 2015

12.27

Dr Pranav Shetty, part of the International Medical Corps emergency response team in Nepal, described the continued fear among residents:

Everyone is still outside. The local people in Kathmandu are extremely scared to go back in for fear buildings may once again collapse.

“I see many families with young children sitting outside in the very hot sun. Hotel workers are passing out water and biscuits.

“Our team immediately went to Patan Hospital where we had already been providing medical care to offer their help. Another of our teams is doing a helicopter assessment.

"Aftershocks are continuing to rattle nerves.”

An Indian child is held by his father after receiving treatment at Siliguri Hospital in Siliguri (AFP/Getty)

12.24

At least 19 people were killed in Nepal, according to Kamal Singh Bam, national police spokesman.

Four more were killed across the border in India, according to officials, while Chinese state media said one person was killed in Tibet.

The total number of those killed now stands at 24.

12.01

There had already been some concern for the future of Nepal in the short-term and how it would cope with last month's disaster.

Now the UN warns more help is needed as this graphic shows.

#NepalQuake: While aftershocks continue, only 13% of requirement is funded. More is needed to scale up the response. pic.twitter.com/YQQQGEmloP — UNOCHA (@UNOCHA) May 12, 2015

11.56

Sky News reports that more than a 1,000 have been injured.

Nepalese search for open space as a strong earthquake hits Kathmandu (EPA)

11.52

At least 16 people were killed in a new earthquake that struck devastated Nepal on Tuesday, according to a bulletin from the country's disaster agency, AFP reports.

A further 335 were also injured in the 7.3-magnitude quake, Nepal's national emergency operation centre said on Twitter.

But Associated Press reports that Nepal's home ministry says at least 19 people killed and 981 injured in latest earthquake.

BREAKING: Nepal's Home Ministry says at least 19 people killed and 981 injured in latest earthquake — The Associated Press (@AP) May 12, 2015

11.42

BREAKING: 16 killed in new Nepal earthquake, disaster agency says.

11.32

Reuters is now reported at least nine people have been killed by the quake and 300 injured.

The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said four people were killed in Chautara town in Sindhupalchowk district, north of Kathmandu.

Nepalese police confirmed at least three had died but Reuters pointed out that it was not clear whether the three people were the same as those IOM said.

Four people were also killed in Indian states bordering Nepal, one in Uttar Pradesh and three in Bihar, officials said.

One more reportedly died in Tibet after rocks fell on a car, as previously mentioned.

11.18

There are pictures on China's Weibo of the landslide on the China-Nepal border.

The text accompanying the landslide pictures on Sina's photo microblog says: "China-Nepal border national highway cut off by landslide. The 216 National Road to Gyirong was cut off by a landslide, with rocks rolling down and dust flying around. Many cars got stuck".

11.01

Unicef warned of the dangers for children after the second earthquake in less than a month. Rose Foley from the charity provides this account of what happened earlier today. Ms Foley explains how the building rocked from side to side as if it would go "on and on".

"We dived under tables in the Unicef building as it rocked from side to side. The shaking seemed to go on and on. We got out to safety as soon as possible. Sitting out in the open it felt like I was on a boat on rough seas as aftershocks hit.

People gather in the street after an earthquake in Kathmandu (IOM/AP)

"We are very concerned about the impact this new quake could have on children who are already very vulnerable. 1.7 million children are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance after the April 25 earthquake - requiring clean water, shelter, sanitation.

"Unicef has been working round the clock to get life-saving aid to children since the first quake hit - including tents, safe drinking water, hygiene kits, medical supplies and vital counselling to help children come to terms with their experiences. We have teams on the ground in every affected district. Our focus is now on how children may have been impacted by this new earthquake - both in terms of their immediate humanitarian needs and the devastating emotional impact that this new shock could have.”

To donate to Unicef UK’s appeal for Nepal text DONATE to 70123 to give £5 or visit unicef.org.uk/nepal.

10.55

What do we know so far? A short summary:

• At least three people have been killed, according to police but the Telegraph has seen reports of at least six including one in Tibet

• More than 300 people injured after the 7.3 magnitude earthquake

• The number of deaths registered in Nepal so far from that quake stands at 8,046, along with more than 100 in neighbouring India and Tibet

• Tuesday’s quake hit at 12.35pm local time, 7.50 am BST

• The epicentre was halfway between Kathmandu and Mt Everest, six miles south of the town of Bahrabise near the village of Thulo Dhading in Nepal’s central region

Indian office workers from various offices look up to a building after leaving their offices in New Delhi because of an earthquake (EPA)

10.49

World Vision UK, a charity, has got in touch with me via email to offer a quote from their Nepal earthquake response manager.

Jimmy Nadapdap said he could see how terrified people who had experienced the first quake felt with the second one today.

We felt a very strong aftershock. I could see in the eyes of the people who experienced the first quake - they were just terrified. We all managed to get outside to safety. We are now trying to locate our staff - many are in the field working on our relief operations today. It is a reminder of how challenging this situation is for us all."

10.47

So far we have one person confirmed dead in Gyirong Town in Tibet, after a landslide hit a car of passengers, writes Nicola Davison.

"A car with one male and three females was hit by rolling stones [a landslide], which killed one female and slightly injured two females," Chinanews.com reports.

There is also a description of the quake from border police on People's Daily microblog:

"According to border police at the Nyalam, Tibet border patrol station, the tremors in Zhangmu Town were strong and shaking continued for a long time. Stones rolled down the nearby mountains.

"Residents in Lhoka prefecture and Lhasa felt a slight tremble."

10.45

At least three people were killed and more than 300 injured, police said.

"We are getting updates from outlying areas, the number of dead is three and injured is over 300," an officer in the Kathmandu police control room told Reuters by telephone.

10.27

AFP's reporter on the ground in Kathmandu has spoken to one resident who described the "scary" situation.

"We felt it and suddenly there were huge crowds running up and down," said resident Suresh Sharma.

"It was very scary and very difficult to make my way out," added the 63-year-old who was in a vegetable market at the time.

"The last time we had the big quake I ran out of my house and barely escaped. This one felt just like that one. I can't believe it's happening again."

Earthmovers remove debris from a building that collapsed in an earthquake in Kathmandu (AP)

10.24

There are reports of people trapped "in debris".

Two buildings that housed banks-Nepal Bank Ltd & Araniko Bank-collapsed in Jiri; 3 Araniko employees trapped in debris, acc to Navin Jirel. — The Himalayan Times (@thehimalayan) May 12, 2015

Indian state officials said two people were killed in India. Vyasji, the head of the disaster management department of Bihar state, who uses one name, said a man died when a house collapsed in Siwan district, about 250 kilometres (155 miles) from the state capital Patna.

Bihar shares a border with Nepal which was hit by a 7.3 quake just weeks after a devastating temblor killed more than 8,000 people and damaged hundreds of thousands of buildings.

Another death occurred in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh state while two people were injured, according to Debashish Panda, principal home secretary of the state.

7.1 quake in central Kathmandu. First sign was the dogs barking. pic.twitter.com/JxTvxxAKxL — Mike Lavender (@MikeLavender) May 12, 2015

10.20

Local media reports one person has been killed in Teku.

Quake kills one in Teku, Kathmandu, Nepal Police says. #NepalQuake — The Kathmandu Post (@kathmandupost) May 12, 2015

10.19

We are getting the first reports of injuries on the Tibet side of the border, writes Nicols Davison.

According to the microblog account of People's Daily one person has been "severely injured" in Gyirong county.

"Considering there are many collapsed buildings in Gyirong, the border patrol in Gyirong has dispatched 20 soldiers to investigate the safety of the collapsed houses and for casualties in Gyirong town."

The death toll in Tibet after the Nepal quake last month was under 30, with nearly 400 injured. But the scale of destruction to the region was worse than the toll might suggest: in Gyirong, Nyalam and Tingri counties nearly 80 per cent of the buildings collapsed, with nearly 50,000 people displaced across Tibet, according to state-run Xinhua News Agency.

10.18

We now officially know that Kathmandu airport has closed.

"The airport is closed for operations right now," Birendra Prasad Shrestha, manager at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport, told AFP.

10.14

Local media in Nepal suggests the earthquake had a lower magnitude on the Richter scale

National Seismological Center says the magnitude of today's quake was 6.8 in Richter Scale. #NepalQuake — The Kathmandu Post (@kathmandupost) May 12, 2015

10.08

Another harrowing video depicting the devastation:

About to map Changu Narayan Temple with @skycatch when a 7.3 earthquake hit. Everyone is ok. #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/jpWY69znTO — David Chen (@chenosaurus) May 12, 2015

You can also read everything we know so far by my colleague Richard Spencer:.

Four deaths were immediately reported in the town of Chautara, capital of Sindhupalchowk, east of Kathmandu, which had the highest death toll last month.

The Red Cross said the injured were already arriving at its makeshift hospital in the town.

There were subsequent aftershocks registering 5.6, 5.5 and 6.2 on the Richter Scale.

The full breakdown of what has happened is here.

10.00

In this screengrab, you can see that flights are not making their way to Kathmandu as Flightradar24 says planes are being diverted.

Jet Airways flight #9W266 to Kathmandu is diverting to Lucknow because of Kathmandu Airport closure. pic.twitter.com/bvRxMBIG59 — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015

09.55

Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, a home ministry spokesman, has said on local radio that Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk‬ have been affected the most.

Dolakha‬ and ‪Sindhupalchowk‬ has been impacted the most. Nayabazar and some of the places with in ‪#‎kathmandu‬ have some impacts as of the recent updates.

Helicopters and Medical & Rescue team have been already asked and the helicopters who were on the relief have already departed for Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk.

09.52

There is now confirmation that four people were killed in Chautara, Nepal, a spokesman for the International Organisation for Migration said.

"The situation in Chautara is that several buildings in the town have collapsed," Paul Dillon told Reuters by telephone from Kathmandu.

"There are four fatalities."

09.51

I've screengrabbed the USGS website showing the initial 7.3 magnitude earthquake and the aftershocks that followed.

09.42

Kathmandu Airport has reportedly closed.

#Kathmandu Airport closed now because of #EarthquakeAgain ,flights waiting for green signal from the KTM ATC, pic.twitter.com/k2tYzJpsir — Mumbai (@InfoMumbai) May 12, 2015

09.40

The Tibetan government just posted some photos from Nyalam and Gyirong counties near the Nepalese border on its official Weibo account, writes Nicola Davison in Shanghai.

This is the region that suffered the most damage in the last quake. Both are isolated and sparsely populated. Shigatse is Tibet's "second city".

The translation for the link above is: "Shitgatse, Nyalam County, Gyirong County all felt a strong tremor. Many people and workers on duty immediately ran outside to empty spaces to avoid the earthquake. Eye-witnesses have said houses have collapsed in Gyirong County."

09.32

There are reports that there were four quakes and aftershocks.

4 powerful quakes & aftershocks have hit Nepal in the past hour. 1st measured 7.3; 2nd - 5.6; 3rd - 5.5 and 4th - 6.2 #earthquake — Rajesh Kalra (@rajeshkalra) May 12, 2015

Simon Cox, news correspondent, said on BBC just now: "Well you can clearly feel the shock. People immediately rushed away outside and it felt as if it went on for such a long time.

"About 20 minutes ago, the aftershock really panicked people - women, people next to me huddled together, they were crying.

"It was a pretty big earthquake, you could feel this, it was no aftershock."

Mr Cox said the worry will be about the buildings that people initially thought were safe - that it will "set things back to day one after the first earthquake".

He added: "People won't come back."

Despite the second quake to hit the country, Mr Cox pointed out that this time there were many search and rescue teams out there.

09.24

Reuters India on Twitter has said there have been three major landslides in Nepal's Sindhupalchowk region. An official reportedly said at least 12 were injured.

Bodies being brought out of buildings in Nepali town of Chautara - U.N. agency says in tweet #earthquake #NepalEarthquake — Reuters India (@ReutersIndia) May 12, 2015

Sky News says there are reports of four killed but unconfirmed in Chautara.

09.23

Rajnath Singh, India's home minister, has promised that "India will provide full support to Nepal wherever required".

09.20

Nepalese patients are carried out of a hospital building as a 7.4 magnitude earthquake hits the country, in Kathmandu today.

09.17

Ravi Agrawal, India Bureau Chief at CNN, says the news organisations stringer is reported of damage to buildings in Sankhu.

Our stringer in sankhu, Nepal says 3-4 houses around him started collapsing as soon as the quake hit. #EarthquakeAgain — Ravi Agrawal (@RaviAgrawalCNN) May 12, 2015

Via their live blog, Reuters says buildings have collapsed in Chautara, Nepal, after quake. One NGO says the injured are being taken to hospital.

The USGS has now revised the earthquake down to a 7.3 magnitude and AFP says it lasted a minute with a depth of 15 km.

09.12

Nepalese police has warned individuals to stay in open spaces and suggested to those in Nepal to text their loved ones.

Please stay in open field, help us make free road, do not make phone nw busy. SMS is suggested. — Nepal Police (@NepalPoliceHQ) May 12, 2015

09.08

NBC News has spoken to a nursing student who said less than an hour after the quake, there was still shaking.

"The shaking is still being felt," Shristi Mainali, 21, in Kathmandu, said.

A Red Cross worker also told NBC that the tremors "scare[d] the living daylights out of everybody".

Mark South, said: "From where I'm standing I can't see any damage but just a lot of very frightened people."

09.01

Already in the aftermath of the second big earthquake to hit Nepal, there are reports of aftershocks.

Via Twitter, the UN has been sharing images of those waiting to return to return to work after the earthquake.

Still waiting for clearance to go back to work after the second #NepalQuake this afternoon. pic.twitter.com/AGeIYztJqy — UN OCHA Asia Pacific (@OCHAAsiaPac) May 12, 2015

There are also reports of electricity outages in Nepal. The BBC has said thousands fled into the streets after the quake which witnesses said lasted two minutes.

There is no indication as to whether there have been any casualties, BBC reported.

08.57

Indian television footage shows lights shaking in Delhi.

08.54

Already on Twitter, the hastag #prayfornepal has begun to be used as well as devastation and sadness that there is another earthquake.

Associated Press points out that today's quake was deeper, however, coming from a depth of 18.5 kilometres (11.5 miles) versus the April 25 quake that hit 15 kilometres (9.3 miles).

More shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage at the surface.

The tremors were also felt as far as Dhaka in Bangladesh.

08.47

Geeta Pandey, a BBC journalist, is tweeting from New Delhi where she is saying tremors have been felt there.

Thousands of people from all offices in our building evacuated - waited outside anxiously pic.twitter.com/sSenwAMR5c — GeetaPandeyBBC (@geetapandeyBBC) May 12, 2015

Another major tremor just a minute ago — GeetaPandeyBBC (@geetapandeyBBC) May 12, 2015

Friend in Kathmandu tells CNN 7.4 earthquake that jolted Nepal was "very strongly" felt in capital, everyone now out on street,traffic jams — Ivan Watson (@IvanCNN) May 12, 2015

08.42

08.42

Today's earthquake happened at 12.35pm (7.50am BST) and the USGS said it struck 83 kilometres (52 miles) east of Kathmandu.

The earthquake last month had a magnitude of 7.8 and killed more than 8,000 people. That earthquake was centred in east Nepal

08.38

According to The Associated Press, the epicentre was in a remote area near the Chinese border.

08.36

Videos are coming out showing the earthquake's impact as Reuters speaks to individuals in Kathmandu. Prakash Shilpakar, the owner of a handicrafts shop in Kathmandu who was trying to call his parents in the town of Bhaktapur, said it was "a really big one".



A USGS shake map of the 7.4 magnitude earthquake in Nepal

The news agency said shockwaves were felt across northern India and as far away as the Indian capital, where buildings swayed for more than a minute and people scurried into the streets.

There were no immediate reports of damage to buildings.

08.33

Hello and welcome to the Telegraph's live coverage of the Nepal earthquake, the second major quake to hit the devastated nation.

Nepal has been hit by another earthquake with a magnitude of 7.4, forcing people in the capital and beyond to rush out on to the streets, only weeks after a 7.8 magnitude quake killed more than 8,000 people.

The US Geological Survey (USGS) said it struck 68km west of the town of Namche Bazar and that shockwaves were felt as far away as the Indian capital New Delhi.

USGS said it had a depth of 19km and earlier had said it was of a magnitude of 7.1 but that was revised upward.
</text>