<url>
http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2015/05/13/the-morning-wrap_n_7271204.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
The Morning Wrap: Math Error Lets Jayalalitha Walk Free; Quarter Of Central Indian Universities Headless
</headline>

<text>
A supporter holds up a placard bearing the portrait of southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and General Secretary of The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) Party J. Jayalalithaa during celebrations in Chennai on May 16, 2014. India's triumphant Hindu nationalists declared 'a new era' in the world's biggest democracy Friday after hardline leader Narendra Modi propelled them to the biggest win in 30 years on promises to revitalise the economy. AFP PHOTO/STR (Photo credit should read STRDEL/AFP/Getty Images)

ADVERTISEMENT

The Morning Wrap is HuffPost India's selection of interesting news and opinion from the day's newspapers. Subscribe here to receive it in your inbox each weekday morning.



Essential HuffPost

A major earthquake hit a remote mountain region of Nepal on Tuesday killing at least 37 people while triggering landslides and toppling buildings, less than three weeks after the Himalayan nation was ravaged by its worst quake in decades.

Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led NDA government (National Democratic Alliance) in Parliament today, alleging that the NDA had "killed" the Land Bill.

A Chandigarh-based businessman has splurged over Rs 8,00,000 on a VIP number for his scooter -- which is only worth Rs 50,000, reports NDTV.

A girl in Rajasthan, who boldly annulled her marriage solemnised in her infancy, has been fined Rs 16 lakh and ostracised along with her family from the village community.

The attacks on Bangladeshi bloggers, who criticize religious fundamentalists, continue with Ananta Bijoy Das, a blogger and author from northeastern Bangladesh, becoming the third one to be killed by masked men.

Main News

The second earthquake in Nepal hasn't spared India with at least 16 killed and a large number of houses collapsed in Bihar.

Can it be that Jayalalitha walks free today because the Karnataka High Court messed up the math on the disproportionate assets case that hounded her for 19 years?

Modi may be giving himself diplomatic brownie points over the land swap agreement with Bangladesh, but this has spurred several Tamil Nadu politicians to intensify the demand for taking back the island of Katchatheevu that India ceded to Sri Lanka in 1974.

Weeks after India was upbraided by a US group for a poor record on treating religious minorities, India has rebutted with a counter-report of its own--cleared by PM Modi--criticizing the US' own domestic human rights record at the United Nations.

In what would be a major coup for the fledgling Rao-led Telangana government over the more IT-savvy Chandrababu Naidu government in Andhra Pradesh, tech giant Google is set to build one of its largest facilities outside the US in Hyderabad.

At least 10 of the 41 central universities under the direct supervision of the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry are headless, affecting recruitment and infrastructure revamp.

Notwithstanding the 45 thousand followers on Weibo, a state-run newspaper on Tuesday has carried a highly critical article on Modi, accusing him of "playing little tricks" over the border dispute and security issues against China to boost his domestic prestige.

Off The Front Page

Tuesday's quake in Nepal has left seismologists in the US and China divided over its intensity, with US instruments measuring it as a 7.3 and the Chinese agencies claiming it to be a 7.5. To the layman, that is just two decimal points more but in seismology, with every decimal point, a quake gets 30 times more powerful.

Joining the illustrious league of religious leaders who motivate their faithful to accelerate procreation, Giani Gurbachan Singh, the chief of the Akal Takht (the highest temporal seat of Sikhs), has exhorted Sikh couples to have at least three to four children each, as it was the only way to "correct the community's dwindling population".

The case of the Delhi traffic constable, who was suspended for brandishing a brick at a woman, has become complicated with another 'recording' emerging that purportedly shows the cop as not demanding a bribe.

Exams typically scare the pants off a lot of students, but a University of California professor has taken things to a whole new level by asking his class to come naked to the finals of a visual arts paper if they want to pass.

Opinion

Kai Xue, in The Hindustan Times, says that trade between China and India shouldn't be seen as antagonistic and there is evidence to show that, together, they reduce the cost of Western imports.

Praveen Swami, in The Indian Express, says that Fascist ideologies are alive in several movements around the world, ranging from religious cults or Maoist insurgency, where "...each determinedly resists reasoned engagement with the bewildering complexities of the modern world, choosing, instead, to sweep away the world with a tide of blood..."

Arvind Subramanian, in The Indian Express, says that ahead of the December climate change meet in Paris, India must highlight its domestic actions on climate change and use that as leverage to push the West to give greater commitments.

Happymon Jacob, in The Hindu, says that Modi should be increasing his foreign trips in New Delhi's neighbourhood--especially the Northwest--rather than the West.

Like Us On Facebook |

Follow Us On Twitter |

Contact HuffPost India


</text>