<url>
http://www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs/river-forest/news/ct-rfl-victoria-brander-nepal-tl-0521-20150513-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
River Forest doctor leads team assisting Nepal earthquake victims
</headline>

<text>
When NorthShore Orthopedic physician Dr. Victoria Brander and her colleague Dr. David Stulberg founded Operation Walk Chicago in 2005, they had no idea how much the organization would be needed when crises hit.

Operation Walk Chicago provides hip and knee replacements for disadvantaged patients throughout the world. Its volunteers partner with hospitals in numerous countries to better serve patients.

For the past five years, one of the group's partners has been Nepal Orthopedic Hospital in Kathmandu. When Nepal was hit by a series of earthquakes in April and May that killed more than 8,000 people, Brander and Operation Walk jumped to help their colleagues deal with the disaster.

"We started a training program at their hospital, and have been back there multiple times for teaching the personnel and upgrading the hospital facilities," Brander said. "Within 12 hours of the earthquake, the medical director at the hospital called and said 'We're in a crisis.'"

Brander was speaking with hospital director Saju Pradhan, who informed her his hospital was being overwhelmed with patients.

According to Brander, the 100-bed hospital was caring for as many as 180 patients inside the building, with many sharing beds or sleeping on the floor. Even more patients were treated in tents set up on the hospital lawn.

Brander urged Pradhan to assist as many people as he could, and pledged Operation Walk Chicago would help offset the costs needed for the first few weeks of patient care.

On May 7, Brander arrived in Nepal with a small team to bring supplies and assist in any way they could.

"We started operating and caring for patients and by [May 11], things were pretty much under control," Brander said. "We got most patients out of the tents and into the hospital. By [the day I left], they had done 1,200 outpatient visits and almost 200 trauma surgeries."

As the team made their way to the hospital, they couldn't help but be overwhelmed by the devastation they encountered.

"It's hard to describe," Brander said. "Two-thirds of Bhaktapur is in rubble, including most people's homes. You climb over rubble just to get through the streets. There's no government, no aid workers, no running water, no electricity. In some towns we had to wear tuberculosis masks because of the fear of rotting flesh. Many bodies are still buried in the rubble."

Bodies were burned daily, Brander said, and with a lack of utilities, the smell of human waste is pungent.

While her team remained behind, Brander boarded a plane to head back to her River Forest home late May 11. While aboard, she got the news that yet another earthquake had hit the region May 12.

"Within two hours into the plane flight, I got texts from my team saying there was another earthquake," Brander said. "It wasn't as damaging as the first one, but patients were screaming. The people of Kathmandu and Nepal were just terrified. They're really traumatized by this."

The current plan is for her team to return home to Chicago on May 15, but with the Nepal airport still closed, Brander is unsure when they'll return home or when the people of Nepal can return to normalcy.

"It's one catastrophe on top of another," Brander said. "It seems almost impossible to see how they'll make their way out of it."

As the country recovers, Operation Walk Chicago continues to collect donations to assist the Nepal Orthopedic Hospital. Interested donors can visit http://www.operationwalkchicago.com.

In addition to helping cover patient costs, Brander plans to assist hospital staff as well.

"For this month, we committed to feeding not just the patients, which most hospitals don't do in Nepal, but feeding the staff," Brander said. "Most of the staff lost their homes. All of the money from Operation Walk Chicago is going right to Nepal without any sort of overhead. We just want to get them back on their feet."

sschering@pioneerlocal.com

Twitter: @steveschering
</text>