<url>
http://www.iamin.in/en/gurgaon/news/gurgaon-based-volunteer-group-reaching-out-nepals-devastated-rural-pockets-59555
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Gurgaon based volunteer group reaching out to Nepal's devastated rural pockets
</headline>

<text>
It has been more than two weeks since a massive earthquake struck Nepal on April 25, but there are still parts of the country that hasn’t seen a light of the day in terms of relief and aid, especially villages that were mostly affected being an epicentre of the deadly tremors.

In a situation where all relief efforts driven are confined around Kathmandu and its neighbouring pockets, volunteer groups from all walks of life have now started taking a bumpy ride to far end remote landscapes where hundreds of thousands of people were made homeless with their entire villages flattened.

Lending its helping hand in the same direction, the Gurgaon based volunteer group Expedition for Cause (EFC) would be sending a truck load of relief material by road to the most affected rural pockets of Nepal.

Neeraj Dahiya, Founder, EFC, is keeping a close eye on the ground zero through his Nepalese friends and peers.

“The relief materials are prohibited beyond the Sunauli border (India-Nepal border). Huge piles of aid stuff is being collected and kept over there. The government of Nepal do not have an adequate manpower to distribute the packaged foods or medicine which has been sent in the form of aid. The distribution work is only led by the Indian Army which is only limited till Kathmandu and its nearby areas,” said Neeraj.

According to him, any kind of relief and aid has not been initiated in certain areas in the hill locked country leaving many of the affected victims fending for themselves. In order to deliver the relief aid to the most affected place where it is getting difficult to trek, Neeraj’s EFC has joined hands with Nepal based grass-roots organisation Gurkha Foundation.

Neeraj said that one of the most affected villages was Gorkha where 300 houses were destroyed by the massive earthquake leaving more than 3000 people homeless.

“After what we heard about Gorkha, we prepared a road map to the most affected places where none of the aid hasn’t been reached so far. We hired a truck that would carry 16 tonnes of aid supply which get unloaded at Abu Khareini. From there volunteers of Gurkha foundation would carry all the relief material in small jeeps,’’ he explained.

Neeraj shared that his next plan would be to rehabilitate entire Gorkha village. “The entire Gorkha village of 330 houses got flattened leaving only 30 odd shanties in that region. Our team would be visiting Nepal by the end of May. We would be adopting the entire village where we will provide construction related materials in order to re-build their houses again,” he said.
</text>