<url>
http://www.oregonlive.com/portland/index.ssf/2015/05/portland_native_international.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Portland native, international aid worker spends 'vacation' as emergency responder to Nepal earthquakes
</headline>

<text>
The email sent to Jasmine Avgerakis kicked right back. She may be slow to respond, the automatic reply said, because she's working as an emergency responder in Nepal, where two earthquakes have left more than 8,000 people dead this spring.

What the message didn't mention: Avgerakis is supposed to be on vacation.

Avgerakis, a 37-year-old aid worker most recently stationed in South Sudan, was in Nepal to visit friends and had been there only 25 hours before a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck the south Asian country on April 25. She has been there since, providing food, sanitation, shelter and other assistance to those who have been affected by the earthquakes.

"Vacation, what vacation? I didn't even recover from jetlag," she said, jokingly, in a Tuesday night conversation with the Oregonian/OregonLive.

Avgerakis works for Mercy Corps, a Portland-based humanitarian agency that has a presence in more than 40 countries and has been in Nepal since 2006, Mercy Corps spokeswoman Lynn Hector said from Portland. Hector said Mercy Corps's 100-plus workers in Nepal are safe after Tuesday's 7.3-magnitude earthquake there.

Tuesday's earthquake was especially harrowing, Avgerakis said, because she had seen the Nepali people begin to recover from the first earthquake, only to be shaken by another.

"Standing here (Tuesday), people were running down the street and children were crying. ... Just seeing the fear return to people's faces was really heartbreaking," she said.

Jasmine Avgerakis Age: 37 High School: Lincoln High School, Portland; Metuchen High School (class of 1996), Metuchen, N.J. College: Indiana University, bachelor of arts in cognitive science, 2000; Portland State University, master of international management, 2010 Previous aid locations: Colombia, Kenya, South Sudan Why did you get into international aid in the first place? "I've wanted to work in the field of development and humanitarian aid for a long time, perhaps since my first visit out of the U.S. (to Nepal in 1998). I really can't imagine doing anything else. I am able to utilize various sets of skills, am constantly challenged and am able to serve those who need it most."

Currently stationed in the central Nepal town of Chautara, Avgerakis has an overly simplified job description: get aid to those who need it most.

It's broad, difficult and potentially treacherous. The earthquakes have left affected areas prone to landslides and rock falls, and some buildings are unstable, she said.

While Avgerakis is quick to say she wouldn't want to be anywhere else during Nepal's time of need -- "I feel very fortunate to be here when this happened" -- she's still able to pinpoint a next-best location: Portland, her hometown.

She's looking to buy a home in North or Northeast Portland this summer. That is, after she's done with her work in Nepal -- whenever that may be.

"I'll be in Nepal for quite some time," she said, noting that emergency relief usually lasts two months or more and is followed by an additional recovery period.

For now, Avgerakis is working in a field in Chautara that is divided into thirds: one apiece for a makeshift hospital and hubs for displaced people and nongovernmental aid organizations.

Avgerakis was in a restaurant at the time of this week's second major earthquake and weathered it indoors before making her way to the field, only yards away.

Her response, and the response from those around her, was swift.

"The good thing about (Tuesday) is that since everybody is in a relief zone and a relief frame of mind, the search and rescue, at least in this town, was immediate," she said.

Avgerakis is the lone Portlander currently working for Mercy Corps in Nepal, Hector said. And while there are several Americans that are part of Mercy Corps's Nepal staff, Hector said the majority of the organization's workers there are from Nepal.

"They know their country well, they know the needs and they're very invested in helping their country rebuild," Hector said.

Hector said Mercy Corps's leaders are hopeful that the agency will continue to distribute aid as planned, also noting that Tuesday's earthquake didn't hamper communication between her office and her other colleagues in Nepal.

Medical Teams International, a global non-profit whose headquarters is in Tigard, has also had workers in Nepal for two weeks. Each of the five workers currently in Nepal are safe, vice president of programs Joe DiCarlo said from Portland.

Three of Medical Teams International's five workers in Nepal are from Oregon, he said, and one more Oregonian is on the way to Nepal. Four Oregon residents initially traveled to Nepal as part of Medical Teams International's relief efforts, The Oregonian/OregonLive reported April 29.

DiCarlo said Medical Teams International is focused on restoring health services to those who need continuing health care, with a particular emphasis on children's and maternity care.

As for the friends Avgerakis was originally traveling to visit before the first earthquake hit? They still urge her to come visit them in Pokhara, Nepal, when her work is complete.

"We had a lot to talk about," Avgerakis said. "I still have not seen them yet."

-- Jim Ryan

jryan@oregonian.com

503-221-8005

@Jimryan015
</text>