<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/13/top-story/fresh-quake-rattles-country/405160.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Fresh quake rattles country
</headline>

<text>
May 13, 2015-

A fresh jolt that struck the country on Tuesday claimed 61 lives till late in the evening. The quake with its epicentre between Sindhupalchok and Dolakha districts has injured more than 1,200 people and ravaged most structures including schools, health posts and government offices.

In Dolakha, two buildings housing Sangam Hotel, Nepal Bank Limited and Araniko Development Bank collapsed while five people are believed to have been buried under the rubble of Paradise Hotel. Security personnel dug out two bodies from the site and three injured from the rubble of the Araniko bank. Bank Manager Umesh Adhikari has gone missing.

Most buildings of hotels including Motherland, United, Cho-Rolpa, Image, Kings and Chilankha are on the verge of collapse. The quake has affected most of the buildings located in Charighyang and Saatdobato. Major roads linked with the district headquarters have got cracks.

According to locals, some are feared to have been buried in landslides triggered by the quake. Locals at the district headquarters and surrounding areas have started living under tents. The Barda Bahadur battalion of Nepal Army has put up tents at 11 locations.

In Sindhupalchok, 11 people died and more than 100 were injured, said police. Two motorcycles were reportedly buried in landslides. Vehicular movement on the Tatopani-Barhabise section has halted due to landslides.

Some of the injured in Ramechhap have been ferried to medical facilities in the Capital. In Sarhlahi, two deaths were caused by a stampede. In Rasuwa, the quake has triggered avalanches in Langtang. Army personnel rescued 25 people as of the evening.

In Kavre, more than 100 people were injured. In Nuwakot, seven people were hurt and scores of houses that were damaged by the April 25 quake toppled. Locals who had just started entering their houses were forced to return to makeshift shelters.

In Janakpur, 10 people were injured while the recently constructed 55-feet tall statue of a Hindu deity was destroyed. People were preparing to spend the night out in the open.

In Itahari, a woman died and three people were injured. Industries in the Sunsari-Morang corridor, along with department stores, have been shut. In Chitwan, 12 injured are being treated at Chitwan Medical College and Bharatpur Hospital. The Narayangadh-Mugling road stretch was closed briefly owing to landslides in Kali Khola.

Police said five injured were referred from Makwanpur to hospitals in Bharatpur and Kathmandu.

(With inputs from our district correspondents)

Published: 13-05-2015 07:39
</text>