<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-earthquake-milan-rai-campaign-5691072
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake victims given hope as artist's butterfly campaign raises vital funds for shelter and sanitation
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Standing among the debris of a destroyed square in his home town of Kathmandu, Milan Rai prayed for the earth to stop shaking.

Surrounded by rubble, and deafened by cries for help, he knew already that the earthquake was to devastate his country.

Yet remarkably, while the natural disaster of April 26th killed over 8000 and left whole neighbourhoods in ruins , his house remained standing.

Determined to help those less fortunate, Milan started a social media campaign which has gained support across the globe - especially in the UK.

Now, along with the 59,000 strong Nepali community here in Britain, he is raising money to provide life-saving shelter and sanitation for the survivors - many of whom are homeless, hungry, and grieving for lost loved ones.

(Image: Milan Rai)

Two days after the earthquake hit, Milan went to Tundikhel Ground, Kathmandu’s only real open space, where terrified families had fled for safety.

With just four toilets for some ten thousand people, there was already a terrible smell as earthquake survivors had no choice but to use the park as an open latrine.

Milan knew that something had to be done, and fast. Bad sanitation can lead to outbreaks of cholera, a water-borne disease that can kill victims in matter of days.

Using funds from well-wishers, and whatever limited materials he could lay hands on, Milan set out the next day on a mission to build emergency toilets.

With help from young volunteers who responded to a call on social media and a helping hand from members of the Nepal Army, Milan managed to construct 45 latrines.

(Image: Milan Rai)

Milan, an artist whose work has been exhibited all across the world, also brought hundreds of white paper butterflies to the site as a symbol of hope.

That night before falling asleep, Milan shared photos of the toilets, and the butterflies, on Facebook, and put out a desperate plea to friends for more funds to continue the work.

Nothing prepared Milan for the response. Within hours his post had gone viral, clocking up 1300 shares by the time he woke up the next morning, and some 3000 by afternoon. Offers of financial help had come in from Nepalis and their friends all over the world.

“I was convinced that getting people to come together and act would make Nepal rise. This conviction defines our campaign,” said Milan. “Since we started, we have helped set up more than 140 temporary toilets, in camps and condensed shelters within and around the Kathmandu valley.”

(Image: Milan Rai)

Among those in the UK who rallied to help Milan were a group of young Nepali artists in London. Led by Govinda Sah ‘Azad’, a Nepali-born painter who now works from a studio in Brixton, Arts for Earthquake Nepal is a collective of artists who have come together to raise money for their homeland.

Watching the disaster unfold far away in London has been a harrowing experience for Govinda and his fellow artists.

“People lost life, home and family and friends. They are injured and scared. They're under the open sky and in the rain. The aftershock is knocking them each and every moment. Please pray for Nepal” said Govinda.

The group will be holding their first fundraising event on May 16 at October Gallery in central London, an evening of Nepali music and food with a silent auction of artworks donated by international and Nepali artists.

Britain's rich Nepali history

Some 59,000 Nepalis live in the U.K according to the 2011 census.

The UK has a longstanding relationship with Nepal thanks to the Gurkhas, soldiers with a formidable reputation for their skills on the battlefield, who have a history of serving with the British Army since 1817.

Many Nepalis who have settled in the U.K. have a military connection, but others are active in many walks of life, including the NHS, hospitality, real estate and education.

One example is Uttam Nepal, a fashion entrepreneur whose distinctive knitwear and bird- and animal-print designs have been worn by Kate Moss and Sienna Miller.
</text>