<url>
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/local/breaking/ct-northwestern-nepal-earthquake-aid-met-20150513-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Chicago-area doctors aid victims of earthquakes in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Dr. Scott Cordes was operating on a patient Tuesday when the hospital building in Nepal began to violently shake. He could hear screams throughout the hospital as nurses and family members tried to evacuate patients.

Cordes, an assistant clinical professor with the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, was treating victims of the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal less than three weeks ago, when the area was struck again — this time by a 7.3-magnitude quake centered between the capital Kathmandu and Mount Everest.

"They were already under severe stress from the first earthquake. Most of them had lost their homes and were severely injured," said Cordes, also a surgeon with NorthShore Orthopaedic Institute. "Some were trapped in their beds, either in casts or in traction, having just undergone surgery or waiting for an operation. So they couldn't run out of the hospital."

Within an hour, a wave of about 50 people arrived at the Kathmandu hospital. Cordes said they could provide only emergency casts and splints, feeling for broken bones, because people couldn't re-enter the hospital until officials were sure it was stable.

After the April 25 earthquake, the medical director from the Nepal Orthopaedic Hospital called Dr. Victoria Brander, an associate professor at Feinberg and physician at NorthShore Orthopaedic. The hospital was overrun with victims of the disaster, and Nepal did not have the resources, nor the support from the government, to help them all. A team of surgeons and physicians with the volunteer medical group Operation Walk Chicago was dispatched to provide aid.

The death toll has climbed to more than 8,150, The Associated Press reported Wednesday. The United Nations said the first earthquake affected 8.1 million people, roughly a quarter of Nepal's population.

A Chicago doctor was in Nepal when the second earthquake hit May 12, 2015, and he describes his experience. (WGN TV) A Chicago doctor was in Nepal when the second earthquake hit May 12, 2015, and he describes his experience. (WGN TV) SEE MORE VIDEOS

Brander was traveling back to Chicago when she heard the news Tuesday of the second earthquake. She had just left the clinic where Cordes and other Operation Walk physicians had helped to treat more than 1,200 victims.

"The hospital had just gotten to the point where it was in a normal rhythm, we were just starting to relax," said Brander, a director at Operation Walk. "Now it's back to ground zero."

After Tuesday's quake, people throughout Nepal slept outside, waiting out the rattling of aftershocks. Wednesday morning, most were still afraid to re-enter the hospital.

Cordes said officials will move the hospital's operating room to the first floor from the third floor to try to make it safer for anxious medical personnel and patients.

"We can't ever predict what the risk is for future earthquakes," he said. "But there are a tremendous amount of people that still need to be surgically treated."

Since the first earthquake, Cordes said, the team treated 55 of the 70 patients needing trauma surgery. The 100-capacity hospital in the past week saw as many as 180 patients, the hallways lined with mattresses and beds that overflowed to a tent outside.

Doctors with Operation Walk travel to developing countries to provide knee and hip replacements and teach physicians the skills to perform these procedures. Brander and other physicians had visited Nepal two or three times in the past five years and developed a relationship with the doctors at the Kathmandu hospital.

Dr. David Stulberg, a Northwestern professor who established Operation Walk in 2005 with Brander, said this was the first time the project has directly helped in a natural disaster. He said the experience of coordinating with the Nepal hospital will help the group understand how to better provide services in future initiatives.

Because of the previous visits, Stulberg said, the doctors were able to communicate in a way that was "much more effective, much more personal."

Before Brander left, she said a large crate of supplies, including beds, anesthesia machines and casts, was delivered. "It could not have come at a better time," she said.

Operation Walk continues to accept donations for Nepal.

Cordes and the rest of the team will return to Chicago at the end of the week and will coordinate follow-up visits to check on patients, he said.

Working with and helping people in Nepal, Brander said, has been "stunning" and "humbling."She recalled a man with a fractured leg who had been waiting a week for trauma surgery, without any pain medicine, sitting outside in the rain on a thin reed mat.

"But when we told him, 'We'll get you another blanket,' he said, 'Oh thank you, I appreciate it. Give it to that lady because she's got less,'" Brander said.

Cordes said it may be several months between follow-up visits and additional surgeries before everything gets back to normal. Though he said there would be a shortage of resources when the team leaves, Operation Walk will begin planning a return once things have settled.

"What's been uplifting is how supportive the people are and how they're drawn together to overcome what's happened to them," he said. "It's remarkable how a severe event can bring a country together as a whole."

pfirozi@tribpub.com

Twitter @paulina_milla
</text>