<url>
http://www.greeleytribune.com/news/16313041-113/in-wake-of-another-earthquake-university-of-northern
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
In wake of another earthquake, University of Northern Colorado graduate student will travel to Nepal to help recovery efforts
</headline>

<text>
University of Northern Colorado student Meagan Cain won’t be able to use her cellphone while in Nepal, but she will regularly update a Facebook page dedicated to the trip. To follow along, ask questions, or send messages of support, “like” the Girls Moving Mountains Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/GirlsMovingMountains .

Before University of Northern Colorado graduate student Meagan Cain can begin helping the people of Nepal recover from two monstrous earthquakes, she has to shop for a home.

Cain, and her boyfriend, Tye Wawerski, are flying to Nepal today and traveling into India to look for tents.

The trip, for Cain, was supposed to be her capstone anti-trafficking project for her master's degree with the Colorado School of Public Health. But when a magnitude 7.8 earthquake rocked Nepal three weeks ago, killing more than 8,000 people, Cain's focus changed.

Now she'll be conducting an in-depth needs assessment. After a 7.3 quake killed dozens more Tuesday, those needs just got bigger.

"Crazy timing right?" Cain said in an email from Chicago, the city they're flying out of. "We have been expecting another quake to hit and will not rule out the possibility of another major one hitting while we are there."

Nepal appealed for billions of dollars in aid from foreign nations, as well as medical experts to treat the wounded and helicopters to take food and temporary shelters to hundreds of thousands left homeless amid unseasonal rains.

Recommended Stories For You

Cain and Wawerski, a wilderness EMT, will provide some medical expertise. The clinic Cain was supposed to stay at, in the Kumari region northwest of Kathmandu, was destroyed in the first, larger earthquake. Which brings us back to the tents.

Cain and Wawerski could have packed them. But they're allowed to take only six suitcases, and those are packed with tarps, emergency blankets, baby bottles, medicine and pretty much anything else community health education specialist Cain and her wilderness EMT-certified boyfriend will need.

"We have 200-250 pounds of stuff," Cain said in a phone interview on her way to Chicago for her flight. "We're hoping for the best."

Cain and Wawerski are taking all of that stuff because she said the government of Nepal, intent on controlling aid efforts, is seizing anything larger than those six suitcases.

"Everything that's coming in has to be carried in," Cain said.

Along with tents, which are unavailable in Nepal, Cain and Wawerski will seek additional supplies in India. The hope is that the damage from Tuesday's aftershocks, which radiated across parts of Asia, including India, won't preclude the pair from getting necessary supplies in India.

Last year, Cain led clinics on basic health habits for commercial sex trade workers. This summer was supposed to be more focused on women's health and economics. Instead, her project will wait until she returns Aug. 19 and begins work on a slightly different project: How to go into communities post-disaster.

She'll have plenty of practice.

Cain and Wawerski are a two-member team, financed by Health and Education 4 Nepal, a Denver-based nonprofit. But their missions will be very different. Cain's main goal is to hammer out a full needs assessment. Wawerski will provide on-the-ground medical care in very remote areas.

Both of their missions will be critical in dealing with the aftermath of the two monster earthquakes. The most recent has killed at least 37 people, according to early reports. More than 1,100 were injured Tuesday, but the death and injury toll is expected to rise as reports began reaching Kathmandu of people in isolated Himalayan towns and villages being buried under rubble, according to an Associated Press report.

About 60,000 people live scattered across the remote Kumari region, where Cain and Wawerski will be traveling for weeks to find people and help them.

Even getting into the region could prove challenging, as Cain said landslides had previously closed roads.

"We have to be prepared to trek in 4-5 hours," Cain said, adding that they'll have to carry their hundreds of pounds of gear in the process.

Many things have changed since Cain's trip last summer. But Tuesday's magnitude 7.3 earthquake, which killed dozens more Nepalese, only changed the urgency.

Cain called it a roller coaster of emotions and a bundle of nerves.

"My contacts are telling me that the airport has reopened, so we should be fine getting in," Cain said. "I'm seeing pictures of injuries come in from the Kumari, so Tye will be ready to dive in with wound care.

"All part of planning for the unexpected, right?"

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Tyler Silvy covers education for The Greeley Tribune. Reach him at tsilvy@greeleytribune.com. Connect with him at Facebook.com/TylerSilvy or @TylerSilvy on Twitter.
</text>