<url>
http://www.liverpoolecho.co.uk/news/real-lives/dug-bodies-rubble-nepal-bare-9250035
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
I dug bodies from the rubble in Nepal with my bare hands
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Surrounded by unimaginable scenes of devastation, of once-beautiful historic temples shattered and reduced to rubble, Rob White began to dig with his bare hands.

The 28-year-old from Hale Village, travelling in Nepal, found himself at the site of the natural disaster claiming thousands of lives.

What he witnessed and what he did in a desperate attempt to rescue survivors and recover the dead will never leave him.

“After the first quake, I dug out the dead bodies of two Nepali teenage girls and one Nepali man around a similar age to myself,” he says. “If there’s one image that will stay with me after I leave Nepal, it’s the first body; the man and the position he was lying in on his side, and gently clearing the earth with my hands around his face and hair.

“I’m not a medic so I can’t offer medical assistance, so I figured all I could do was dig for bodies and I was determined to do that.”

In fact Rob, an architecture graduate from Liverpool University, didn’t just offer practical help in Kathmandu. Since the first earthquake hit at the end of April, followed by a second yesterday, he and two fellow volunteers from Spain and France have raised around $10,000 and completed two relief trips to outlying villages.

Within 48 hours, the three of them raised enough money to buy 1.4tonnes of rice and lentils, 100 large blankets, and 70 large tarpaulins - food and shelter for a village of 500 for a month.

Now Rob is focused on raising as much money as possible to support and safeguard families before the monsoon season lands in the next two to three weeks.

He has set up a Paypal account and created an appeal on Facebook to provide the most basic of necessities for people who have lost everything.

“Every penny received is going to buy aid for the people most in need. We are here now, buying directly from suppliers and personally delivering to individual families. And we are trying our best to show this with regular Facebook updates so, unlike donating to a large charity, people can see exactly where their money is being spent.”

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

For Rob, the past three weeks have changed his life. They have certainly changed the course of what began as a post-degree travel adventure.

After graduating, he did several jobs around Liverpool including one year on the production line at Jaguar Landrover in Halewood before leaving to begin two years’ travelling. 18 months in the south of France was followed by five months rock climbing in New Zealand before he headed to Thailand.

“After a month there I took a big fall and picked up an injury that stopped me climbing for several weeks, so I decided instead of hanging round the jungle all day and partying I would go to Nepal to trek in the Himalayas.”

Rob had just arrived in Pokhara when the first earthquake struck.

“I was in my hotel when the whole room began to violently shake,” he recalls. “I quickly jumped down two flights of stairs and out into the street to join the many hundreds of people fleeing their buildings. I was never scared, only excited because this was my first ever earthquake and I didn’t yet appreciate the scale of the destruction elsewhere.”

It was only when he spoke to his brother David back in Liverpool that Rob began to realise the extent of the disaster. At 6am, he took five buses, finally getting to Kathmandu at midnight.

“There were no lights on anywhere besides the odd car headlight; almost every building had no front to it, just piles of rubble everywhere I looked and small fires dotted about with families huddled around them. It was like a war zone scene from Call of Duty.”

The next morning, Rob was able to assess the damage, heading to Durbar Square where he’d been before when he first came to Kathmandu. “I’d wandered through and taken a few photos, in true tourist fashion, never expecting to see it four weeks later in the state it was. Around half of the 20-something temples were either damaged or completely destroyed. The square is a popular meeting place for people, to socialise and sit on the steps of the temples. When they fell, people were instantaneously buried with no chance of escape.”

Rob begged reluctant police officers and soldiers manning cordons to let him through to dig, and one eventually allowed him past to join a team of around 40 digging with 10 shovels between them.

“Most people were digging with silver serving plates from the houses around, or their bare hands, moving the rubble along a line in baskets,” he adds.

After three days, he says it became clear he could do more than just recover the dead. That was when he, and fellow volunteers Jordi and Marion, began raising money and organising aid trips to villages in remote mountainous areas, negotiating roads blocked by landslides.

They videoed their first mission, and the one-hour trek to deliver supplies on foot to cut-off survivors, so anyone donating could see their money in action.

Their most recent drop had to be delayed after the second quake and Rob says the team is now deciding where they will be able to reach after more landslides.

“We already have all the supplies waiting in our hotel to be loaded into the van and taken straight to the worst affected areas,” he explains.

Having twice delayed his flights, Rob is due to return to New Zealand on June 14, but is considering staying in Nepal to carry on helping.

“The people of Nepal are incredible,” he says. “They live such simple, humble lives anyway and then lose everything and still keep in high spirits. Their level of resolve is relentless. Still they laugh and joke and offer the highest levels of hospitality and kindness.”

It’s that compassion which Rob says he’s already seen and hopes to continue seeing from supporters back home.

“In the last village we took aid to we visited a primary school that had been completely destroyed. The next day I received a long handwritten letter from the headteacher asking for our help to build a new school, only small, five classrooms. Perhaps after everywhere has received basic aid again following this second earthquake, it would be a possibility using my architectural background, and our organisational skills, to recruit volunteers to design and build a primary school that would withstand another earthquake in the future.

“So far we have been relying on friends, family and workmates at JLR for funds, and Abbots Lea School had a cake sale and contributed £338 which has been a massive help. But I would like to appeal to the people back in Liverpool, as we have a well-deserved reputation for being kind and generous, to help us with our cause here in Nepal.”

Rob’s Facebook is www.facebook.com/rob.white.79069 and the Paypal address to donate money to is: nepal_earthquake_disaster_relief@yahoo.co.uk
</text>