<url>
http://asia.nikkei.com/Politics-Economy/Policy-Politics/Unity-in-calamity
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Unity in calamity- Nikkei Asian Review
</headline>

<text>
SINGAPORE -- Two things have become increasingly apparent in the weeks after the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck Nepal on April 25: The resilience of the Nepalese and their anger toward the government's handling of the disaster.

In view of what is widely regarded as official ineptitude, the vast Nepalese diaspora quickly initiated their own relief efforts from all corners of the globe. Following another strong earthquake on Tuesday, they have redoubled these efforts to help save lives in the mountainous nation where two of every five people live in poverty.

One Hanoi-based Nepalese entrepreneur, who flew back to Nepal after the first quake, summed up the frustration people feel toward the government: "Not having enough relief items can be attributed to a lack of resources," he began. "Not facilitating the provision of relief can be attributed to excessive and inefficient bureaucracy. But not having a single leader on the ground is inexcusable!"

Other news outlets have reported on this disappearing act. Kunda Dixit, a respected journalist, wrote in the Nepali Times that the prime minister only toured one of the worst-hit areas by air 10 days after the first earthquake. And Reuters quoted a woman saying, "Nobody has come to even check our health. We are totally on our own here."

The expatriate, who requested anonymity, said people need "hope and leadership" at times like this but that the government did little, at least in the first 10 days.

This sense of frustration and mistrust have stirred overseas Nepalese to come together and help with relief and rebuilding efforts back home, where the death toll from the two earthquakes has exceeded 8,000. There are approximately 28 million Nepalese, 10% of whom are thought to live abroad. By leveraging their local and global connections, these expatriates have become key players in fund-raising and logistics support.

They face the same challenges others have in delivering much-needed tents, tarpaulins, water purification tablets, medicines and food to a devastated region.

Nepal's coalition government, under Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, initially maintained stringent customs restrictions and careful checks on whether all imported relief materials were genuine. This might have been a well-intentioned measure to ensure people didn't avoid import duties under the guise of relief. But it did not go down well with aid workers and locals who suspect the government wanted to monopolize the inflow of relief material and create opportunities for corrupt officials.

Nepal is one of the most corrupt countries in the world, with Transparency International ranking it 126th of 175 countries on its Corruption Perception Index.

Any relief material not addressed to the government or agencies on a state-recognized list were taxed. Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations' resident representative, told Reuters on May 2 that Nepal had to loosen import restrictions to deal with the overwhelming inflow of relief materials and to ensure that those who need relief get it quickly.

Subsequently, the government waived import duties for all relief materials, though individuals and private companies still need to go through a long and frustrating process to get clearance. As a result, there is still a huge pile of much-needed materials napping at the airport.

In the meantime, Nepal's diaspora has found some ingenious ways of getting relief goods home.

One Nepalese commercial pilot based in Doha, who also requested anonymity, raised money from friends and family members around the world to buy supplies. Including donated goods, he has procured three tons worth of tents, sleeping bags, blankets and medicine.

Getting the first shipment into Nepal by air proved to be an odyssey through numerous government agencies in Kathmandu, all of which demanded some string pulling. One onerous condition placed on the pilot was to collect the signatures of central district officers in all villages the materials were headed. The signatures would be proof that nothing would be sold for profit. This requirement still applies to new shipments.

Deciding that jumping through this particular hoop once was enough, the pilot has since decided to get around the huge bottleneck at Kathmandu Airport by arranging for the relief materials to be collected in India and trucking it to the southern Nepalese border town of Biratnagar. From there, private vehicles carry the cargo to Kathmandu and neighboring villages that were hardest hit by the initial temblor.

The pilot has continued to distribute relief goods in Nepal, working closely with nongovernmental organizations on the ground and making sure to avoid the government. In fact, he says, the government is probably oblivious of his efforts.

Friends back home initiated the project, the pilot said. They knew how to get to villages that were only accessible by hours of trekking. Few reporters "have reached such villages, even now," he said. These include small villages in the Dhading district, west of Kathmandu, where most homes have been flattened, and Dolakha to the east, which was among the areas most damaged by the earthquake on Tuesday and where roads are now blocked by landslides, he added.

Organs of the state have been visible in affected areas -- at least those that were still accessible in the immediate aftermath. The army, the police and the armed police force have all been working tirelessly to provide relief. The country's politicians, on the other hand, have been conspicuous by their absence.

It can be argued that the scale of damage has left Nepal's government overwhelmed -- as it would any government -- but the lack of direction and leadership is baffling. On his flight to Kathmandu, the Hanoi-based entrepreneur ran into what was the first Indonesian team flying in to help with search and rescue. Their points of contact were a university professor and a mosque, as the team failed to find out which government agency to contact.

Many overseas Nepalese who cannot fly home are donating money via crowdfunding sites, which have been used extensively and with good results. Indiegogo -- the world's largest crowdfunding platform -- had raised $1.62 million as of May 12 through 145 campaigns.

Overseas Nepalese are also organizing online and offline events -- art sales, benefit concerts, food sales, cultural nights, marches and candlelight vigils -- to draw attention to the devastation caused by the earthquake and to raise money. A lot of this is happening in the U.K., North America and Hong Kong, which have large Nepalese communities. But it is really a global phenomenon.

Facing an uphill struggle and hemmed in by a government seemingly ill-equipped to manage any meaningful response to the disaster, Nepalese themselves are coming to the fore.
</text>