<url>
http://www.thestar.com.my/News/Regional/2015/05/13/New-quake-hits-crushed-Nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
New quake hits crushed Nepal - ASEAN/East Asia
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU: A new earthquake and several powerful aftershocks hit devastated Nepal yesterday, killing at least 36 people and sending terrified residents running into the streets of the traumatised capital.

The 7.3-magnitude quake struck at 12.35pm, some 76km east of Kathmandu, the US Geological Survey said, more than two weeks after a 7.8-magnitude quake which killed more than 8,000 people.

The quake was felt as far away as New Delhi, and officials said it caused buildings to collapse in Tibet in neighbouring China.

A second tremor of 6.3-magnitude struck around half an hour later, followed by yet more aftershocks, according to the USGS.

At least 36 people were killed in Nepal, according to national police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam who put the number of injured at 679.

Seventeen more were killed across the border in India, according to officials, while Chinese state media said one person was killed in Tibet.

The ground swayed for close to a minute from the first of Tuesday’s tremors, according to a correspondent in Kathmandu.

“We felt it and suddenly there were huge crowds running up and down,” said resident Suresh Sharma, 63, who was in a vegetable market at the time.

“It was very scary and very difficult to make my way out.

“The last time we had the big quake I ran out of my house and barely escaped. This one felt just like that one. I can’t believe it’s happening again.”

The International Organization for Migration (IOM), which has a number of teams on the ground in the wake of the April 25 quake, said four people were crushed to death when buildings collapsed in Chautara, east of Kathmandu.

Police said at least three people had been killed in the Kathmandu Valley while more than 300 people had been injured in the city itself.

The impact was also felt in China and India where officials reported four people dead in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.

Rose Foley, working in Kathmandu for the UN’s children’s fund Unicef, said staff dived under tables.

“The shaking seemed to go on and on. We got out to safety as soon as possible. Sitting out in the open it felt like I was on a boat on rough seas as aftershocks hit,” she said by email.

Although the latest quake did not appear to be as severe as the April 25 one, residents were terrified buildings that were already badly damaged could come crashing down.

“I was thinking of moving to a rented room, but today was so scary I can’t risk my family’s life,” Dipak Koirala, who has been living under a tent since April 25, said by phone from central Ramechhap district.

“We will continue to stay in the tent but it’s wet here and the rain came into the tent, which we are sharing with 24 people.”

Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in aid, was briefly closed again yesterday as a precaution but reopened after a couple of hours.

Whole villages were destroyed in the April 25 quake while large parts of Kathmandu were destroyed, leaving tens of thousands homeless. — AFP
</text>