<url>
http://www.perhamfocus.com/news/local/3739846-update-perham-graduate-lives-through-nepali-earthquake-twice
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Update: Perham graduate lives through Nepali earthquake, twi...
</headline>

<text>
"Another 7.4 earthquake with multiple aftershocks... I am ok but my heart bleeds for this country," Weber wrote. "Keep us in your prayers."

KATHMANDU, NEPAL – Just short of a week after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake that shook Nepal’s foundations, Kristen Weber recounted her past six days almost like emotionless posts in a bland, daily journal.

“I don’t know, it may sound weird, but it’s all still sinking in,” said the 2005 Perham High School graduate, who coincidentally has been on a mission trip in Nepal since February. “Maybe I should be more worried than I am, but I am pretty safe. My house is very solid. I haven’t had any issue getting water or food. My situation is better off than most people.”

Weber, who may be too close to the devastation to have had time to assess what she’s lived through, was speaking via phone on April 30, just six days after the earthquake hit the south Asian country of Nepal. The country, which is home to 27 million people, is landlocked and sandwiched between India to the south and China to the north.

Because of much of the country’s remoteness and a lack of infrastructure, the emergency response has been slow.

Weber, who has taken to helping people through any means she can, even personally traveling to villages, adds that the country’s corrupt and inefficient government hasn’t helped the emergency response either.

Nepali government officials at the National Emergency Operations Center on Monday said the country’s death toll stands at 7,250 people, and the number of people injured is 14,122. But they added that they figures will continue to grow.

Other figures reported by the United Nations are as staggering:

-$415 million is needed for humanitarian relief.

-130,000 houses destroyed.

-24,000 people living in makeshift camps.

- 20 teams to help reunite lost children with their families.

Weber, who is volunteering in Nepal for her third time in the past five years, happens to be there on a mission trip that was funded through donations from churches in her hometown of Minneapolis.

She arrived there in February and had been volunteering, doing occupational therapy - her profession back home, teaching English and working to prevent and save women from sex trafficking.

But, that all changed on Saturday, April 25.

Weber was out of the city, on a rock climbing adventure with some friends, when she said the earthquake hit. She and seven other climbers were about 30 minutes south of Kathmandu. It was about 11 a.m. and Weber was splaying (holding a climber’s rope from the bottom) for a friend who was climbing the cliff wall. She said that’s when the ground and cliffs around her started shaking.

“I wasn’t scared. I was just puzzled more than anything,” she said. “Which is good, because I was able to stay in control of my rope and lower my friend to the ground slowly.”

Soon, the group realized they were experiencing an earthquake, and they headed for open ground. They ended up riding out several aftershocks in a nearby village, out in the open with the locals.

Weber said there were a few houses that had fallen in the village but there wasn’t much more visible damage there.

After a while of riding out aftershocks that came 10 to 15 minutes apart, Weber said she and four women headed on foot back to Kathmandu. They chose to take a less-travelled road in a valley that wasn’t close to cliffs or tall buildings. This route home wound through some other villages and took them about three hours to get back to the city.

She said every village they walked through had suffered significant damage. Eventually, nearer the city, a friend picked them up on motorcycle and brought Weber to her house.

She said she sprinted in her house and grabbed the essentials: money, her visa and clothes. That night, she and some Nepali friends stayed at a Swiss friend’s house, where about 20 people all slept outside in the courtyard.

“By the time I got back to Kathmandu, it was six hours after the first shake, and so people were more dazed and confused than terrified, like they were when it was happening,” said Weber, who spent most of the day after the quake at her friend’s house.

But, the second day after the quake, she went into action, heading out across the city to check on friends and help them remove their belongings from damaged homes.

Since then, she and friends have used any means possible, including their own funds, to purchase and gather up supplies to take out into the more remote villages. Since the earthquake, Weber has made several trips with the supplies she purchased to help villagers, where emergency help and humanitarian relief is sparse.

Weber, who already had been practicing humanitarian relief of another kind, more long-term and sustained aid through her teaching and therapy, said the quake certainly shifted her focus.

“At first, I thought ‘I don’t know anything about relief work,’ but then I realized that it’s not a complex puzzle,” she said. “I just talk to people, figure out what their needs are and then try to help them. My initial focus (when I arrived in Nepal) was supporting people, helping get them a better quality of life. Now my focus is making sure people stay alive, making sure they have food and water and tarps, etc.”

Weber had strong words about the efforts of the Nepali government, which she called “inept, corrupt and inefficient,” because she felt it is hindering the work of non-government organizations that want to provide relief. And that, she said, motivates her to want to help the people of Nepal even more.

About 100 US marines, two helicopters and four Ospreys capable of vertical take-off arrived in Kathmandu on Sunday, and were scheduled to begin relief missions Monday.

Nepali government officials are warning there could be much more bad news coming, and Weber agrees. Due to a lack of decent roads to begin with, the relief effort has been slow getting out into the rural parts of the country. That means the death and injury tolls will likely climb higher.

Weber warned that the country is also staring face-to-face with monsoon season, which will begin in June and bring with it heavy, daily rain that will impact those who lost their homes to the earthquake. She’s also concerned that the rain will soften the ground in Kathmandu, leading to more falling buildings.

But Weber, who is scheduled to leave the country when her visa expires in July, said the event has convinced her that she is not going to leave until she has to. Despite the challenges and the monumental devastation all around her, she says she will stay to make a difference as long as she can.

“Being here and seeing all of this has made me even more determined to stay and even bonded me closer with the people here,” she said. “Right now I am planning on sticking it out.”

Weber said her parents, who still live in Ottertail, have been very calm, and even supportive, about her being there. “But I’m sure they’ll be glad when I come home,” Weber said with a small chuckle.

Weber moved to Perham in 2004, the summer before her senior year and attended Concordia University in Mequon, Wis. She graduated college with a degree in occupational therapy. She now lives full-time in Minneapolis and is active in her church.

It was in college where her fascination with Nepal began. One of her professors had visited Nepal to volunteer multiple times, and eventually she agreed to go with. She went with that professor once in 2010 and again in 2012.
</text>