<url>
http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/world/2015/05/13/delaware-medical-team-works-tent-nepal/27228635/
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
After second quake, hospital operates in tent in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Patients at Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital in Nepal moved outdoors due to fears of aftershocks.

Buy Photo Patients are treated on the outside of the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu the day after a 7.3-magnitude earthquake shook Nepal. The quake was the second major quake in under three weeks. (Photo: Daniel Sato, The News Journal)Buy Photo

Being pummeled by two major earthquakes in less than three weeks has left the people of Nepal feeling exhausted and unhinged

But for cardiac patients, the spike in stress levels can be fatal.

Kanchi Shrestha, 46, was one of the lucky ones. After the magnitude-7.3 temblor hit Tuesday, she felt chest pains but was forced to evacuate Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital along with more than 50 other patients.

The following morning, Shrestha reclined in a hospital bed under a tent in the courtyard, waiting to be discharged. She was surrounded by eight clucking family members, who kept busy by reading the newspaper or catching up on gossip.

"She's comfortable now," Beena Marjan said of her mother-in-law, despite oppressive heat, whiffs of decay and no fans in sight.

Nearby, a woman on a bed on wheels was parked between a motorcycle and car, her urine bag half full.

On the bright side, at least Shrestha had enjoyed the security of four walls for the previous five days. After signing out Wednesday, she would return to her government-issued tent, bunking with 13 family members.

It was the first time in recent memory that the hospital opened a tent camp, according to hospital administrator Uttam Krishna Shrestha (no relation to Kanchi Shrestha). Patients were expected to be moved back inside later Wednesday or Thursday, he said, after engineers determined that the building was structurally sound.

"We don't want to be paralyzed," he explained. "We want to work."

About 25 patients in critical condition remained inside the hospital's emergency room Wednesday. In the lobby, a young girl curled up in the fetal position, clutching a green blanket next to a doll.

Tuesday's massive quake has added to the climbing death toll of more than 8,000 in this poor Himalayan nation. At least 65 people died and nearly 2,000 were hurt in the recent quake, which was felt as far away as northern India, Tibet and Bangladesh. The latest quake was centered nearly 50 miles east of the capital of Kathmandu.

A U.S. military helicopter missing during an aid mission reportedly was spotted north of the capital, according to the Marine Corps Times. But it will take time to reach the site in the Tamakoshi region north of Kathmandu.

The Huey helicopter was carrying six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese soldiers when it disappeared Tuesday.

The News Journal is in Nepal this week reporting on the Delaware Medical Relief Team, a group of nine doctors, nurse practitioners, nurses and physician assistants who are providing medical treatment and supplies in the Kathmandu Valley. More volunteers are expected to arrive as early as this weekend.

On Wednesday, the team, all of whom are safe, returned to a makeshift clinic in Khokana, a traditional village four miles south of Kathmandu.

Since the team last visited Monday, the tents had multiplied in the village, along with the rubble.

The team saw more than 100 patients Wednesday, including several children who complained of stomach upset, headaches and sleeplessness related to anxiety. Others pointed to lingering joint pain and minor wounds from the first earthquake.

Immediately before the quake Tuesday, Christiana nurse practitioner Marilynn Bartley saw a 15-year-old girl with a dry cough caused by dust-filled air.

Noticing that the girl was jittery, Bartley scribbled a prescription: Candy once a day.

Volunteers immediately loaded her down with lollipops.

It was "just to boost her spirit," Bartley said. "They were all sad and withdrawn."

At the private Dhulikhel Hospital-Kathmandu University Hospital, 67 people injured in Tuesday's earthquake had received treatment by late Wednesday, according to the hospital website. The hospital covers a region of 2 million people.

"We have heightened our Disaster Medical Response, set up temporary emergency services in the courtyard and put our medical team on high alert," the website said. "Another wave of destruction, but we are committed to do what we can."

For nurses like Seria Manandhar, caring for patients during a natural disaster is both challenging and rewarding.

Manandhar was assisting with an open-heart surgery Tuesday when the anesthesia machine started wobbling.

Doctors finished up the surgery over the next hour, while Manandhar fretted about her family's safety.

"How can we leave?" she said.

Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1HgQU9O
</text>