<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/prc-continue-deploy-personnel-and-send-relief-assistance-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
PRC to continue to deploy personnel and send relief assistance to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
“The PRC commiserates with and pray for the families whose loved ones died because of the Nepal earthquake. We are in solidarity and are ready to join the Red Cross Red Crescent Movement's (RCRC) response to assist the families left behind of those whose lives perished,” said PRC chairman Richard Gordon. “We will continue to send relief assistance, as well as a team of staff and volunteers to help in the rescue and medical operations for those devastated by the quake,” he added.

PRC staff and volunteers and the Nepal Red Cross Society are currently working on the ground assisting in the search and rescue efforts and administering first aid to the injured of the quakethat struck the country on April 25.

“All of us at the PRC are deeply saddened by the loss of lives caused by another devastating earthquake yesterday. We are currently coordinating with partner societies in the RCRC Movement so we can immediately send much needed help in Nepal,” said Gwendolyn Pang, secretary general of the PRC.

The PRC is also preparing its resources and emergency fund to be sent in Nepal to support the humanitarian response to the second big quake that hit Nepal.

The statement reads, “PRC will follow coordination and cooperation procedures of the Red Cross movement and Nepal Red Cross before engaging, adding that they are now preparing various collapsed structure equipment, to be brought to Nepal as soon as they receive information from the Nepal Red Cross and the Red Cross Movement and other partners”.

As part of the Red Cross Movement, PRC staff and volunteers are prepared to work with the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies’ and the Nepal Red Cross with respect to our role in assessment, rescue, relief, and other operations.

PRC will assist in whatever way the humanitarian organization could to alleviate human suffering in Nepal. It will send whatever it could that would help in easing the suffering of the people of Nepal. PRC is part of a global organization whose goal is to alleviate human suffering. With the Philippines also frequently hit by different disasters, PRC is aware how devastated the people of Nepal must be after the terrible loss of lives and widespread damage caused by the earthquake.

As of yesterday, at least 37 people have been killed and more than 1,000 injured, reports say.

The latest earthquake hit near the town of Namche Bazaar and sent thousands of panicked residents on to the streets on the capital, Kathmandu.It had a magnitude of 7.3, compared to the 7.8 of the 25 April quake in western Nepal.

Reports say that the latest tremor was also felt in northern India and Bangladesh. It was centered about 76km (47 miles) east of Kathmandu, in a rural area close to the Chinese border. Three people have been confirmed dead in India.

Two weeks ago, a PRC medical team composed of two doctors from Makati Medical Center (MMC) and three volunteer nurses from PRC chapters left for Nepal. The team joined the contingent from the Canadian Red Cross that set up an emergency field hospital (EFH) to provide emergency medical care to the vulnerable population affected by the earthquake.

Particularly, the medical team from the Philippines focused on providing maternal and child health care including surgical operations. Members of the Philippine team are highly trained and have been previously deployed in other EFH operations such as in the aftermath of typhoon Yolanda.

An emergency response unit (ERU) search and rescue team, composed of 13 trained emergency response personnel, also left for Nepal. The ERU team from the PRC is now assisting the Nepal Red Cross Society in the search and rescue and retrieval of trapped victims from collapsed structures. All of the team members are highly trained and experienced on collapsed structure search and rescue (CSSR) and urban search and rescue (USAR). The team members are also trained and experienced emergency medical technicians and firefighters.

The PRC medical team is still in Nepal to support the ongoing search, rescue and retrieval, and medical efforts of the Nepal Red Cross Society. Based on the report PRC received from one of the team members, all of them are safe and extending assistance to those affected by the latest tremor.

PRC meanwhile appealed for support from Filipinos for the Nepal Red Cross as part of our additional support to the Nepal Red Cross and to the whole Red Cross Red Crescent Movement. It calls upon the kind hearts of our Filipino countrymen to extend our spirit of generosity at a time when it is needed most.

As the Philippines too have received overwhelming blessings of compassion and goodwill during our times of crisis especially during typhoon Haiyan (Yolanda), the Filipino people is encouraged to take this opportunity to give back the support we have received.
</text>