<url>
http://www.jamestownsun.com/news/nation-and-world/3731553-seventeen-bodies-found-everest-base-camp-official-says
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Seventeen bodies found at Everest base camp, official says
</headline>

<text>
The first helicopter took off from on Sunday morning to airlift the injured after flights were delayed by cloudy weather, , president of the , told Reuters. At least 61 people were injured.

The avalanche swept down , burying part of the base camp as climbers gathered near the main route to the summit at the beginning of the climbing season in the deadliest incident on the mountain.

U.S. climber said dozens of people had suffered critical injuries, many of them with head injuries. "It's been a rough 18 hours," he told CNN.

An spokesman said earlier a climbing team found 18 bodies on Saturday in the first hours after the quake. could only confirm 10 deaths, but spokesman said the toll could rise. One of those killed was , a Google engineer based in . He suffered head injuries when the avalanche hit, according to a statement from the mountaineering company that had taken him to base camp."We pray too for all those who have lost their lives in one of the greatest tragedies ever to hit this nation," Jagged Globe said. officials estimated that at least 1,000 climbers, including about 400 foreigners, had been at base camp or on the ascent to the peak when the earthquake struck.April is one of the most popular times to scale the 8,850-metre (29,035 foot) peak before rain and clouds cloak it at the end of May. Almost exactly a year ago, an avalanche killed 16 Nepali guides in what was the single deadliest day on the mountain.

Saturday's 7.9-magnitude quake was the strongest to hit for 81 years. It also shook neighbouring , and . Early on Sunday, the official death toll stood at more than 1,800 people in . , an Australian climber of The and Trek Climb Ski , said efforts to find out the situation at base camp were being hindered by poor phone coverage."Nothing is being received out of there at the moment," he said.

, a mountain guide and operations coordinator for -based Adventure Consultants, said two Nepali staff had been killed when the avalanche tore through base camp.

A further 31 staff and climbing clients - including two from the , five from and one each from , and - were safe but stranded at Camp 1, further up the mountain.

"The first stage and the first priority is to get them down to base camp. We don't know if it's going to be possible to get them down and out through the Khumbu Icefall or whether we will need to chopper them out," Moffat said from .
</text>