<url>
http://www.architectsjournal.co.uk/news/daily-news/shigeru-ban-joins-nepal-relief-as-second-earthquake-strikes/8682855.article
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Shigeru Ban joins Nepal relief as second earthquake strikes
</headline>

<text>
Pritzker Prize-winner Shigeru Ban has joined the disaster relief effort in Nepal. Meanwhile a second major tremor has struck the country

More from: Shigeru Ban to make UK debut with timber scheme

The Tokyo-based architect and his humanitarian relief outfit Voluntary Architects’ Network (VAN) will deploy emergency shelters in the region.

Ban’s announcement came roughly one week before a second 7.3 magnitude earthquake struck Nepal yesterday (12 May).

The country was plunged into chaos by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake on 25 April – flattening buildings, killing more than 7,000 people and injuring thousands more.

Matt Carapiet, a 23-year-old student architect from Kent and former architectural intern at Zaha Hadid Architects is one of two Britons confirmed to have died.

Around 68 deaths and 1,250 injuries have meanwhile been caused by the latest tremor which destroyed some buildings still standing after the previous upheaval.

VAN has announced it will provide shelter, housing and other community facilities to the disaster-struck region.

Acccording to a statement on the practice’s website: ‘As an emergency response, we will deliver tents that have been collected through donation and will assemble at disaster affected area as a shelter and medical station.

‘Because these tents have only roof of membrane, we will use plastic sheets also donated by contractors as walls.’

The organisation will work with local universities, students and architects on the relief effort and will also assist with permanent housing during later stages of the reconstruction.

UK-based architecture charity Article 25 also launched an appeal for donations to rebuild Nepal’s schools shortly after the initial disaster.

So far the campaign has received £8,500 and is 15 per cent towards reaching its fundraising target.

How to donate The Voluntary Architects’ Network is welcoming donations to the following account: Bank ： THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD.

Branch： HIGASHI-MATSUBARA Branch

Account Name ： Voluntary Architects Network

Account No ： 319-0036997

Swift Code ： BOTKJPJT (or BOTKJPJTXXX if asked for 11-digit code)

Bank Address ： 5-28-18 Matsubara, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, Japan 156-0043 Article 25 is also seeking donations for its Nepal reconstruction appeal ‘Building Schools – Changing Lives’ Visit the Nepal Reconstruction Appeal website to donate

Donations can also be made by text: Text ‘NEPA25’ followed by your donation, to 70070. (e.g. NEPA25 £10)
</text>