<url>
http://prmac.com/release-id-74940.htm
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Join Hands with Magzter to rebuild Nepal prMac
</headline>

<text>
May 13, 2015 in News (E)

[prMac.com] New York, New York - Magzter, the world's largest and fastest growing global digital multi-platform magazine newsstand and bookstore, has always remained compassionate and socially responsible. Magzter has been doing its best to serve people in need, and now, it has once again risen to the occasion by lending a helping hand to Nepal earthquake victims.



The massive earthquake that struck Nepal last month had claimed thousands of lives and lakhs of people have become homeless. The landlocked country, which is still recovering from the natural disaster, was jolted by another major earthquake today. At this point of time, the people of Nepal need our prayers and support to overcome this devastation and rebuild their lives.



Magzter has been contributing 10% of its revenue to the Nepal earthquake victims, in an effort to help the affected people move towards normalcy. So, when you subscribe to more digital magazines on Magzter, you are also actively showing your support for humanity.



Support this initiative by digitally subscribing to more magazines on Magzter and wipe the tears of grief-stricken people of Nepal!



Magzter Inc. is the world's largest and fastest growing self-service, cross-platform digital magazine store and newsstand with over 25 million digital consumers, more than 5,500 magazines and thousands of books and comic titles from over 2,200 publishers. Headquartered in New York, Magzter has its local presence in London, Paris, Barcelona, Munich, Amsterdam, Helsinki, Cape Town, Chennai and Singapore and will soon be expanding to other countries. Founded by global entrepreneurs, Girish Ramdas and Vijay Radhakrishnan in June 2011, Magzter enables magazine publishers around the world to create and deliver digital editions of their titles to global consumers. Powered by its proprietary OREY Click Publishing System(R), that allows publishers to upload their magazines with a single touch, Magzter also enables them to publish interactive/audio-visual content in the magazine as it supports HTML5.



The FREE Magzter app is available on Apple iOS, Android (Google Play), Windows 8, Amazon App Store and Kindle Fire as well as the web with more platforms coming soon. Users can buy their magazines on any of the devices/platforms mentioned above and seamlessly port their purchases to any other devices, a feature unique to Magzter.



Magzter also launched a path-breaking "All You Can Read" subscription service called Magzter GOLD on January 19, 2015, which gives digital readers unlimited access to thousands of magazines for a low monthly price.



The company counts among its publisher customers some marquee names including Hearst (USA), American Media (USA), Bloomberg (USA), Dennis Publishing (UK), Time Inc. UK, Media24 (South Africa), Edipresse Asia (Hong Kong), India Today Group (India), WorldWide Media (India), Maxim Inc. (USA), Black Enterprise (USA), Singapore Press Holdings (Singapore), RBA (Spain) and Grupo Expansion (Mexico). Magzter has been rapidly increasing its publisher base with magazines from over 50 countries including the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, etc.; making it truly the #1 choice for magazine readers and publishers globally.



Device Requirements:

* iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch

* Optimized for iPhone 5, iPhone 6/6 Plus

* Requires iOS 7.0 or later

* 16.8 MB



Pricing and Availability:

Magzter - Magazine & Book Store 4.2 is free and available worldwide through the App Store in the News category. Magzter also launched a path-breaking "All You Can Read" subscription service called Magzter GOLD, which gives digital readers unlimited access to 2,000+ magazines for a low monthly price. The app is also available on Google Play, and Windows 8, the web, Amazon App Store, Kindle Fire, and NOOK and is expanding to more platforms soon. Magzter's easy purchase and renewal systems ensure subscriptions are paid on time, eliminating the need for paper checks and postal mail issues. Users can buy their magazines on any of the above devices/platforms and seamlessly port their purchases to any other devices, a feature unique to Magzter.

Magzter is the world's largest and fastest growing global digital multi-platform magazine newsstand and bookstore with over 25 million digital consumers, more than 5,700 magazines, thousands of books from over 2,500 publishers. Headquartered in New York, Magzter has its local offices in London, Paris, Barcelona, Munich, Amsterdam, Helsinki, Cape Town, Chennai and Singapore and will soon be expanding to other countries. Founded by global entrepreneurs, Girish Ramdas and Vijay Radhakrishnan in June 2011, Magzter enables magazine publishers around the world to create and deliver digital editions of their titles to global consumers. Powered by its proprietary OREY Click Publishing System(R), Magzter also enables their customers to publish interactive/audio-visual content in the magazine as it supports HTML5. Magzter launched Magzter GOLD subscription service to give digital readers unlimited access to thousands of magazines for a low monthly price.All Material and Software (C) Copyright 2015 Magzter Inc. All Rights Reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, iPhone, iPod and iPad are registered trademarks of Apple Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other trademarks and registered trademarks may be the property of their respective owners.

###
</text>