<url>
http://www.ktvu.com/story/29049524/berkeley-scientist-offer-analysis-of-recent-far-east-earthquakes
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Berkeley scientist offer analysis of recent Far East earthquakes
</headline>

<text>
BERKELEY, Calif. (KTVU) -- Seismologists are analyzing two earthquakes that hit Nepal and Japan Tuesday, two regions already struggling to recover from the devastating damage and loss of life caused by previous quakes.The two earthquakes occurred about 10 hours apart Wednesday.The 7.3 magnitude quake at about 1 p.m. Wednesday shook the area northeast of Nepal's capital city of Kathmandu, near Mount Everest about 1 p.m. Wednesday. At least 17 strong aftershocks were recorded.By nightfall, officials said the quake killed at least 68 people in Nepal, India, and Tibet and injured more than 1,200 others. It rattled residents of Nepal who were already fearful after the 7.8 earthquake on April 25th that was centered northwest of Kathmandu and killed some 8,100 people.For the people in Nepal, the magnitude of the quakes is measured in the pain and fear, the lost lives, and the human toll."This was a jolt just like the big one last one, though it was not that long. I was very scared. I thought anything could happen to me." said Avinav Shrestha, a Bhaktapur resident, who spoke with media through a translator.For scientists, the latest earthquakes provide new insight, measured in data points, that could help them better understand the mysteries of the Earth's movements."So the earthquakes in Nepal are the result of plate tectonics. We have the Indian plate moving northward hitting the belly of Asia and subducting underneath," said Peggy Hellweg, a geophysicist with the UC Berkeley Seismological Laboratory."In fact, for this section of the world, magnitude 7.8 is not big," said Hellweg, "History shows us there have been magnitude 9's on the Himalayan front."She says the Nepal earthquake Wednesday might not have been an aftershock, but rather, a separate part of the plate that was subjected to added pressure following the April 25th Nepal quake."That's the kind of earthquake today's earthquake was. It wasn't in the region where the earthquake happened, it was off on the edge," Hellweg told KTVU.In Japan, at 6:13 a.m. Wednesday, an earthquake off the northeast coast of the main island of Honshu measured between 6.6 to 6.8 magnitude. It shook the same region devastated by the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami. By evening, there were no reports of damage to the Fukushima nuclear plant or any injuries in the area.Hellweg says in that case, the quake in Japan likely was an aftershock, coming four years after the massive 9.0 Tohoku 2011 quake."I would expect earthquakes to keep going for months, years, maybe even tens of years," Hellweg said.She says it is still unclear whether large quakes in one region can trigger major quakes in other places of the world, however, there can be lessons learned from Wednesday's quakes."There are new remote tools to be able to look at damage remotely, using satellite data for example and scanning that," Hellweg said.Another tool being developed, is an early warning system similar to one in Japan, that can detect quakes and then send a cell phone alert before people feel the quake. Professor Hellweg says just last week, their prototype was able to send an alert during a small quake in Southern California. Researchers at UC Berkeley are hoping to get more state and federal money to complete the project.
</text>