<url>
http://www.bostonglobe.com/news/world/2015/05/12/weeks-after-deadly-nepal-quake-another-temblor-revives-fears/gOY00UJFVDMCzif2e698fN/story.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Weeks after deadly Nepal quake, another temblor revives fears
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI — A powerful earthquake shook eastern Nepal on Tuesday, shattering the halting recovery from the earthquake that hit the country less than three weeks ago, and causing loose hillsides and cracked buildings to give way and collapse.

By late afternoon, Nepal’s National Emergency Operation Center had reported 42 deaths and 1,117 injuries from Tuesday’s earthquake, which the US Geological Survey assigned a preliminary magnitude of 7.3. The death toll from the April 25 earthquake, with a magnitude of 7.8, has reached 8,159 and continues to rise.

Advertisement

Residents and office workers ran screaming into the streets when the temblor struck, shortly after noon, and people described mud and clouds of dust rising up as cracked structures fell. Prakash Banjara, an engineering student, was on an aid mission with 15 other students, delivering rice to remote villages in Sindhupalchowk district, when “the earth started shaking so violently.”

“The mountains before my eyes started tumbling down in massive landslides,” Banjara said by telephone.

Get Today's Headlines in your inbox: The day's top stories delivered every morning. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here

He begged for help for his small group of volunteers, now stranded by landslides on an isolated road, unable to contact police and fearing the approach of a predicted storm.

“We are clinging together on the road, hoping the clouds will go away,” he said. “I saw buildings crumble as we made our way here. Maybe there are people trapped in them. We have no way of knowing yet.”

The latest major earthquake came just as ordinary life was returning to Nepal, its streets once again alive with vegetable markets and dumpling stands. Jasmine Avgerakis, who is stationed in Sindhupalchowk with the charity Mercy Corps, said she has watched people overcome the trauma of the first earthquake, roll up their sleeves, and begin cleaning up.

Advertisement

“They were just starting to go home and feel comfortable there,” she said.

Tuesday’s quake, she said, brought “the sight of panic. Children were crying; seeing them run from their homes to this field, there was just so much fear in their faces. They had been starting to move on slightly, in areas that had the means to. You could see movement.” With the new earthquake, she said, “they went back to the pain again.”

The epicenter of Tuesday’s earthquake was about 50 miles east of Kathmandu, near the border with China, which also had towns and villages devastated by the April 25 quake.

The largest cluster of deaths, 19, was registered in the district of Dolakha, a mountainous and sparsely populated region where the elevation reaches 7,314 meters, or just under 24,000 feet. Seventy-seven people in Dolakha died in the April 25 earthquake, officials said.

Gajendra Thakur, who oversees relief work for the district, described conditions in Dolakha as “very, very severe.”

Since the April 25 quake, people across Nepal have feared another powerful earthquake, in part because the first one left many buildings unstable, and many people refused to sleep indoors for more than a week. A vast number of buildings appear too dangerous even to enter, with ground floors buckling outward and deep cracks running up their facades. There have also been a number of aftershocks and minor quakes.

Ranveig Tveitnes, the deputy leader of the Norwegian Red Cross team in the hard-hit city of Chautara, said many of the houses in town that had survived the first earthquake collapsed entirely Tuesday, and the road through town that had been painstakingly cleared of debris was once again blocked by rubble.

Two people were brought dead to the mobile Red Cross hospital there Tuesday, and 40 injured had been brought in by midafternoon, with more arriving as evening approached. Tveitnes said no one had had time to count them yet. Doctors who had transitioned to treating everyday illnesses went back to setting bones and performing trauma surgery.

Search-and-rescue teams — including international teams that had been preparing to leave — began digging through the rubble looking for survivors. Bharat Shrestha, who was participating in rescue operations in a town about 7 miles west of Chautara, said the efforts began while the earth was still rumbling from aftershocks.

“I can still see massive clouds of mud and dust around, as massive landslides continue to happen,” he said. “Concrete houses in Chautara have crumbled, and the main road leading to Chautara is completely blocked with debris.”

Even before Tuesday’s earthquake, aid workers worried that wealthy nations seemed unwilling to fund the relief effort in Nepal, having pledged only about 15 percent of the initial appeal for $423 million, said Jamie McGoldrick, the resident coordinator for the United Nations in Nepal.

Watch video of the earthquake:
</text>