<url>
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/relief-for-nepal-shaken-in-race-to-beat-monsoon/story-e6frg6so-1227353955918?nk=8d0b9e2d92c5ac470d635b323434af81
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Relief for Nepal shaken in race to beat monsoon
</headline>

<text>
Relief for Nepal shaken in race to beat monsoon

The tent cities are back across ­devastated Nepal as the country tallies the human cost of a second powerful earthquake which has claimed at least 82 more lives — bringing a still-rising death toll to around 8200 — left thousands more homeless and shaken an already traumatised nation to its core.

Aid agencies have warned ­shelter is the single biggest concern after a series of aftershocks on Tuesday and early yesterday, the most powerful measuring 7.3, felled buildings only just left standing after last month’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake, rendered other previously lightly damaged structures unliveable, and blocked roads that have taken more than a fortnight to clear.

The number of Nepalis injured in the successive earthquakes —17 days apart — has risen to almost 20,000, with 2000 more people­ injured in Tuesday’s quake. A ­further 17 people were killed in the neighbouring Indian state of Bihar, near the eastern Nepal ­epicentre of the aftershocks, and one in Tibet.

“The biggest issue now is shelter because there are more people homeless and far more people living on the streets,” said Plan ­Australia’s Adam Cathro in Kathmandu, who described the quake as “like being in a car when someone slams on the brakes”.

“Every public space, every park you can see is an impromptu tent city. Last night there were people wandering around Kathmandu with bed rolls and mattresses. The issue now will be if it starts to rain again.” GALLERY: Nepal struck by new earthquakes

The UN has warned the massive relief effort required to house more than 2.8 million Nepalis ­living in the open must urgently step up, despite a considerable deficit in aid funding.Nepal’s two month-long monsoon is a few weeks away, though pre-monsoon downpours have ­already added a fresh layer of ­misery to this country’s disaster-struck population.

Relief had only just started to reach some of Nepal’s remote and hard-hit mountain villages cut off by successive landslides triggered by last month’s tremor in the poor, rural districts of Sindhupalchowk and Gorkha — the respective epicentres of Tuesday’s aftershocks and the April 25 earthquake. Some have been cut off again.

UN co-ordinator in Nepal Jamie McGoldrick said increasingly unstable terrain in many ­villages, caused by days of rain and fresh aftershocks, meant aid ­previously getting through by air and road might now have to be carried in by donkey and porter.

Underscoring the dangers, a US aid helicopter carrying six marines and two Nepali soldiers was still missing yesterday afternoon, more than 24 hours after the pilot reported fuel problems.

“The hope was there would be a period of calm where people could start to recover. These aftershocks have had a major impact on that,” Mr McGoldrick told The ­Australian.

“It has only compounded a difficult and distressing situation for people in areas like Sindhupalchowk, Dolakha, Gorkha — there’s a whole band across the mountain range that has been ­affected.”

While medical and search and rescue teams already deployed to stricken areas were able to quickly respond to Tuesday’s aftershocks, a more intensive effort was now ­required. Hospitals such as the Red Cross clinic in the Sindhupalchowk ­capital of Chautara have reported people pouring in by the hundreds. “They are treating dozens for injuries and they have performed more than a dozen surgeries,” said Red Cross spokeswoman Nichola Jones.

The UN has received less than 20 per cent of the $530 million donor funds it says it needs to see the stricken population through the monsoonal months before they can begin to rebuild.
</text>