<url>
http://www.dnaindia.com/world/report-nepal-earthquake-live-death-toll-rises-to-50-over-1000-injured-rescue-operation-continues-2085381
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: At least 65 killed; Modi assures all possible co-operation to PM Sushil Koirala
</headline>

<text>
Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, spokesman for the Nepal home ministry said, "65 people had been confirmed dead so far in the latest quake, which was centred 76 kilometres (47 miles) east of Kathmandu, and also killed 17 people in northern India."

Rescuers battled Wednesday to reach survivors of a deadly new earthquake in Nepal that triggered landslides and brought down buildings, as the search resumed for a US military helicopter that went missing while delivering aid.

Thousands of traumatised survivors spent the night outdoors, afraid to return to their houses after the 7.3-magnitude quake, which killed dozens of people and hit less than three weeks after the country was devastated by its deadliest quake in more than 80 years.

The Nepal army resumed its aerial search for a US Marine Corps helicopter that went missing during a disaster relief operation in eastern Nepal, near where the latest quake hit.

Helpline numbers

The helpline numbers for the Indian embassy in Nepal are (+977)851107021, (+977)9851135141. | Nepal Red Cross helpline numbers- (+977)-1-4270650, (+977)-1-427276

Latest update:

Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala. He said, "PM Sushil Koirala & I had a telephonic conversation. We reviewed the situation arising due to yesterday's tremors. I assured PM Koirala of all possible co-operation from our side in the wake of the earthquake."

I assured PM Koirala of all possible co-operation from our side in the wake of the earthquake. — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 13, 2015

NepalEarthquake : A 16- member AMC surgical team, including 4 officers, today went to Charikot in view of casualties.

Nine women and one man were rescued by the Indian Army engineering team in Bhaktapur, after the 7.3 magnitude on Tuesday

Foreigners stranded in Nepal will be given 7 days gratis transit permit at Embassy of India, KTM.

Nepali troops search for US Marines chopper in rivers

The Nepali army has been told a missing US Marines helicopter with eight on board may have come down in a river in the Charikot area hit hard by an earthquake and 400 soldiers are engaged in the hunt, a senior officer said on Wednesday.

"The info we have is that it is down in one of the rivers, but none of the choppers has seen it yet," Major Rajan Dahal, second-in-command of the Barda Bahadur Batallion, told Reuters in Charikot.

65 people confirmed dead

"We have been informed that an American helicopter has gone missing, search operations have begun," said Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, spokesman for the Nepal home ministry.

Dhakal said 65 people had been confirmed dead so far in the latest quake, and also killed 17 people in northern India. "We had been focusing on relief distribution, but from yesterday our resources were deployed for rescue operations again," he said.

After a 7.3-magnitude earthquake hit Nepal on Tuesday, three new aftershocks were felt throught the night.

*4.4 magnitude aftershock felt at 10:25 pm (5 km S of Kodari, Nepal)

*4.8 magnitude aftershock felt at 10:58 pm (15km N of Ramechhap, Nepal)

*4.2 magnitude aftershock felt at 01:52 am (16 km WSW of Kirtipur, Nepal)

Rescue ops by Indian Army continues after fresh earthquake

The Indian Army on Tuesday continued to provide aid to affected population and areas in close coordination and cooperation with the Nepal Army.

The ALHs are employed for rescue efforts in Pokhara and adjoining areas in spite of weather and terrain limitations and have conducted 30 sorties, evacuated 2 persons, moved 11 others apart from delivering 25.6 tons of relief material since 09 May.

Troops search rugged area for missing US helicopter after new Nepal quake

Nepali and US troops were scouring the area worst hit by a second large earthquake for a missing US Marine helicopter on Wednesday, a zone described by frightened residents as a "graveyard" because the quake flattened so many houses.

Previous updates

As per latest information, 8 people were onboard the missing marine helicopert. Search operation is currently underway.

MORE: There were 6 Marines & 2 Nepalese aboard the U.S. helicopter declared missing in #Nepal: http://t.co/kAHRi3BVRc pic.twitter.com/PWDl1VL8j9 — The Situation Room (@CNNSitRoom) May 12, 2015

BREAKING: U.S. Marine Corps helicopter reported missing in #Nepal while supporting earthquake relief effort: U.S. Pacific command — Reuters Top News (@Reuters) May 12, 2015

BREAKING: U.S. Pacific command says it is unclear how many people may have been aboard the missing helicopter in #Nepal. — Reuters Top News (@Reuters) May 12, 2015

Updated map of Tuesday's Nepal earthquake shows aftershocks and shaking intensity http://t.co/bg1MDzC8V5 via @WSJ pic.twitter.com/cUD69s93NY — Renée Rigdon (@silentcarto) May 12, 2015

Himalayan bank in Maharajgunj in dire state, can collapse any time #NepalQuake #NepalEarthquakeagain pic.twitter.com/hOmEvsRhJq — Pallavi Dhakal (@PallaviDhakal) May 12, 2015

Indian teams are on a stand-by

#NepalEarthquake2 Second MI-17 of #IAF has got airborne for #Lamabagar from #Kathmandu 4 aerial recce and casualty evacuation, if required. — Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) May 12, 2015

Total Death Toll as of now: 42 — EarthquakeNepal-MoHA (@NEoCOfficial) May 12, 2015

Here are further updates from eye witness Sarika Gulati

Rescue operations are on in Mitr Nagar Naya Bus Park near Godhuli Dohori Sanjh in Nepal where a guest house has turned into rubble post the devastating earthquake on Tuesday. The operation is being carried out by Nepalese Armed Force Police. According to the locals, it was a 6-storey-building.

100 metres ahead of Nagar Naya Bus Park, a seven-member LA County Rescue Team is carrying out the search for missing people as two guest houses have collapsed next to Buddha Marg.

People who were running and trying to escape from that passage are feared to have been trapped under the wreckage of the guest houses. The LA County Rescue Team currently has sniffer dogs and stretchers with them and is doing a preliminary search operation to find the ones trapped inside by calling out names.

According to live witnesses, relief operation has started in full swing. Sarika Gulati reporting for dna from Nepal has provided updates of the situation on ground.

In the guest house in Mitr Nagar Naya Bus Park near Godhuli Dohori Sanjh, a cry of help in heard and the LA County Rescue Team has started removing the rubble to get the person out. During the rescue operation, an LA County Rescue member has hurt himself in the hand. He is bleeding profusely and is being tended to.

A residential 5-storey building has collapsed in Samakhushi Chowk in Kathmandu, just 1.5 km away from the Naya Bus Park in Mitr Nagar. Rescue teams are being rushed to the spot.

May 12 Earthquake Death 36 Injured 1117 — EarthquakeNepal-MoHA (@NEoCOfficial) May 12, 2015

According to latest reports, more than 300 people have been injured. All schools in the country have been closed for two more weeks.

People evacuate a building after tremors were felt in Kathmandu, Nepal #earthquake https://t.co/55r3xY2Zbq — ANI (@ANI_news) May 12, 2015

May 12 Quake Update: Dead: Teku(1); Sundarijal(1); Balaju(1); Tangal(1) — EarthquakeNepal-MoHA (@NEoCOfficial) May 12, 2015

May 12 Quake Update Death tolls: Chautara(2);Dolakha(8); Sindhuli(2) — EarthquakeNepal-MoHA (@NEoCOfficial) May 12, 2015

Kathmandu airport resumes operations

Flights are landing and taking off from Kathmandu Airport again after earlier closure due to earthquake pic.twitter.com/kBdWg7Qg0J — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015

I appeal to our people to maintain calm: Mamata Banerjee

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, "Round-the-clock Control Room has been opened at 'Nabanna' and the numbers are 1070 and 22143526"

she further added, "Earthquake has once again struck many parts of our State and other parts of the country and abroad. We are with all our brothers & sisters. I appeal to our people to maintain calm. Our Government will provide all support."

I appeal to our people to maintain calm. Our Government will provide all support #earthquake — Mamata Banerjee (@MamataOfficial) May 12, 2015

PMO tweeted, "PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required."

PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015

Seven earthquakes in Nepal

Kathmandu Airport shut after earthquake

Two died after a wall collapses at an under construction site in Bihar

Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes stock of situation following fresh earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India.

At least four people have reportedly died and twelve others have been injured in Tuesday’s earthquake in Nepal.

Media reports said that three landslides had occurred Sindhupalchok District in the Bagmati Zone of central Nepal.

It is also being reported that some buildings have collapsed in Chautara municipality, which is only settlement in Sindhupalchok District with the administrative status of municipality and lies east of Kathmandu.

Aftershocks will continue for weeks or may be months, said IMD DG LS Rathore

The National Disaster Response Force has been put on alert after two earthquakes struck India with epicentres in Nepal and Afghanistan.

The Home Minister called up India's Ambassador to Nepal Ranjeet Ray and took stock of the situation in the Himalayan nation.

Flights to Kathmandu are holding again after a new 7.4 Magnitude earthquake

Flights to Kathmandu are holding again after a new 7.4 Magnitude earthquake about 1h ago http://t.co/6YpyEO5SyB pic.twitter.com/e29buiNihR — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) May 12, 2015

According to the US Geological Survey (USGS) four earthquakes hit Nepal in a span of one hour.

* First measuring 5.6 magnitute (25 km SE of Kodari, Nepal)

* Second measuring 6.3 magnitute (33km NNE of Ramechhap, Nepal)

* Third measuring 5.0 magnitute (34km S of Kodari, Nepal)

* Fourth measuring 5.1magnitute (19km SW of Kodari, Nepal)

Four people dead in Chautara

Four people dead in Chautara, Nepal, after quake destroys several buildings - aid group — Reuters India (@ReutersIndia) May 12, 2015

Three major landslides reported in Nepal's Sindhupalchowk region, at least 12 injured - district official — Reuters India (@ReutersIndia) May 12, 2015

Mild tremors

Mild tremors felt in in most parts of Odisha, West Bengal and parts of Bihar

Epicenter of latest #NepalEarthquake is reported as Namche Bazar, "the gateway to Everest" in Solukhumbu district. pic.twitter.com/Ii4ThuW0Um — Anup Kaphle (@AnupKaphle) May 12, 2015

Spaking to media, Home Minister Rajnath Singh said, "Heard the news right now, there is no need to panic."

Singh further said, "India will provide full support to Nepal wherever required"

Two earthquakes struck India with epicentres in Nepal (7.1 in Richter scale) and Afghanistan (6.9 in Richter scale): MHA.

Home Ministry is collecting details and information about any damage from earthquake in India: Home Minister Rajnath Singh.

News of an earthquake hitting Nepal again has come. Several parts of India also felt the tremors. MHA is collecting more details and info — Rajnath Singh (@BJPRajnathSingh) May 12, 2015

Tremors also felt in parts of West Bengal and Bihar.

People rushed outside offices in Delhi

Omg, i just felt myself swaying a bit and got a msg that theres been an earthquake in Delhi!! Hoping all fine! — Sonakshi Sinha (@sonakshisinha) May 12, 2015

Colleague in #Kathmandu says earthquake magnitude 7.0 strikes city, some buildings spared by earlier quake collapse — Sitaraman Shankar (@shankarht) May 12, 2015
</text>