<url>
http://www.theage.com.au/world/nepal-fails-to-find-crashed-us-helicopter-amid-fears-search-diverts-from-rescue-operation-20150513-gh15g6.html
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Nepal fails to find crashed US helicopter amid fears search diverts from rescue operation
</headline>

<text>
Charikot: A daylong search failed to find a missing US Marine helicopter on Wednesday, a day after the second Nepal earthquake in less than three weeks killed scores and triggered landslides across the Himalayan nation.

Nepal is still reeling from last month's devastating quake, which killed more than 8000 people and injured close to 20,000.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Children stand on the remains of houses which were destroyed in Sindhupalchowk district, Nepal. Photo: Reuters

The US helicopter was delivering aid in Dolakha, one of the districts hit hardest by both quakes, on Tuesday when it went missing with six Marines and two Nepali soldiers on board.

Six Nepali helicopters and about 400 soldiers found no sign of the Marine Corps UH-1Y Huey in forested and rugged terrain.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Rubble in Kathmandu after the second earthquake. Photo: Getty Images

Nepal Home Ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dahal said he feared the search was diverting resources from relief and rescue operations.

"The work of sending relief and rescuing the injured people to hospitals has been delayed due to this," he told Reuters.

Advertisement

Roads in Dolakha were cracked and littered with large boulders, a witness said. In the village of Suspa Kshamawati, 80 per cent of the houses were destroyed.

Krishna Budhathoki, 40, now lives in his cattle pen. "We want to be able to build a new home before the monsoon, but there's not enough time to do so now, and how can we build during the rainy season?" he said.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link The pain goes on in Kathmandu. Photo: Jonas Gratzer

In Dolakha district's capital, Charikot, other relief and military helicopters brought people injured when buildings collapsed and landslides struck in outlying hamlets to an open-air clinic where they were treated on bloodied tarpaulins.

The helicopters alternated between evacuating people and searching for the Marines' Huey, which lost radio contact after crew members were heard talking about fuel problems.

Two other Marine Corps Hueys and two tilt-rotor V-22 Ospreys spent about 21 hours in the air searching for the missing helicopter on Wednesday, the US military said.

The Hueys each carried two US Air Force para-rescue troops able to jump into a site to offer medical help. One of the Hueys was outfitted with a hoist so it could lower people to help if no landing zone was available, US Pacific Command said.

Bala Nanda Sharma, a retired Nepali army general, visited the army base in Charikot and discussed the search for the missing US helicopter.

"If it just landed in that forest, it would be lost. Only helicopter pilots who have the eye will be able to find it. This terrain is very beautiful, but very difficult," he said, gesturing towards a hillside.

A police official in Kathmandu said 80 people had died and 2376 were injured in Tuesday's quake, which also killed 17 people in neighbouring India. Charikot, 75 kilometres east of Kathmandu, was one of the hardest-hit areas.

Most of the reported deaths were in towns and villages which, like Charikot, were only just starting to recover from last month's quake.

Tuesday's quake and subsequent aftershocks forced many panic-stricken Nepalis to spend yet another night outdoors in makeshift tents and relief camps.

"It looks like a graveyard here," said Aula Bahadur Ale, the assistant administrator of Dolakha.

"Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that makes people terrified."

The tremors have left areas of Nepal perilously unstable, leading to fears of more landslides, especially when seasonal monsoon rains begin to fall in the coming weeks.

Reuters
</text>