<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/nelson-mail/news/68533079/Lama-Zopa-Rinpoche-lands-in-Nelson
</url>

<date>
20150513
</date>

<headline>
Lama Zopa Rinpoche lands in Nelson
</headline>

<text>
Lama Zopa Rinpoche lands in Nelson

Alden Williams/Fairfax NZ Lama Zopa Rinpoche lands in Nelson.

An influential Buddhist monk has arrived in Nelson from his earthquake-devastated homeland, and will lead local followers in prayers for Nepal.

Lama Zopa Rinpoche spends most of his time in America doing humanitarian work but he was at his base, the Kopan Monastery above Boudhanath, on the fringes of Kathmandu, during the April earthquake that killed more than 8000 people. He was in New Zealand when the latest 7.3 magnitude quake hit Nepal on Tuesday.

Chandrakirti Meditation Centre co-director Bruce Farley said the centre had been holding prayers for the people of Nepal and they would be guided in prayer and meditation by Lama Zopa during his stay.

Alden Williams/Fairfax NZ Lama Zopa Rinpoche arrives at Nelson Airport on Wednesday.

"His monastery has been damaged, they slept outside for a week. There are cracks running up the sides of the dormitories and everything. It's just sad about Nepal, it's devastation. Lama Zopa put out a directive on how we could best help and put in our energy and prayers."

More than 60 people holding flowers and ceremonial Tibetan scarves greeted Lama Zopa at Nelson Airport yesterday.

One of the most influential buddhists after the Dalai Lama, he was flanked by a group of red-robed monks to be welcomed through the arrivals gate with a karanga from local iwi representative Kataraina Callaghan.

As Callaghan broke into the song Te Aroha, those in the airport, including bystanders and other slightly confused arrivals passengers, joined her as Lama Zopa smiled and soaked up the atmosphere.

As part of a tour of Tibetan buddhist centres around New Zealand and he will be staying at the Chandrakirti Meditation Centre in Upper Moutere for a week.

Farley and his wife Phillipa Rutherford set up Chandrakirti after meeting Lama Zopa more than 20 years ago and he has been to visit them a number of times since. Farley said visits had become less frequent as Lama Zopa got older and following a stroke he had four years ago.

Although it sounded cliche, having him here was like having his guru come to stay, Farley said.

"I don't like using the word guru cause it's a bit cliche but he'd be what I consider my guru or main teacher. He was really the first monk that I spent any amount of time with and it's just like having the boss home.

"When it was still my family home we'd heard about Lama Zopa and we invited him to New Zealand not really knowing who he was or knowing his status, but he came here to Nelson. It was pretty far out we didn't even have a buddhist centre, it was just our home."

He said Chandrakirti had got increasingly busy over the years and now had a resident geshe and three live-in nuns, and a new half a million dollar meditation hall, to go alongside the main gompa, had just been finished.

"Our main gompa is stunning it's just like Tibet in New Zealand. It's got massive statues and thangka paintings, it's up the top of the hill and it's even got a Tibetan roof.

"We've built a second hall that is more sectarian. We've only just finished it, we've been going flat out for the last month to finish it before Lama Zopa got here and it was finished enough about yesterday afternoon."

He said the new hall was in line with the Dalai Lama's aims of making buddhism less ritualistic and more sectarian.

"Tibetan buddhism is philosophy and psychology it's not believing in something. It's studying how the mind functions, it's universal teachings."

- Stuff
</text>