<url>
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/nepal-quake-singapore/1841092.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal quake: Singapore Gurkha confronts destruction at home village of Barpak
</headline>

<text>
Jit Bahadur Ghale, a staff sergeant serving in the Singapore Police Force's Gurkha Contingent, confronts the grim reality facing his village Barpak, which lies at the epicentre of the Nepal quake.

BARPAK, Nepal: Jit Bahadur Ghale has been serving in Singapore for the last 18 years. He was on holiday leave from the Gurkha Contingent when a magnitude-7.9 earthquake struck on Apr 25.

His house is devastated and so is his family. "In this house I lost my brother's son, a seven-year-old boy," he said while standing inside the broken shell of his former family home. "How do I stay here? How do I build my house here?"

Jit Bahadur Ghale, a staff sergeant in the Gurkha Contingent in Singapore. (Photo: Jack Board)

Located at the epicentre of the Nepal quake, Barpak is a scene of absolute devastation, and Jit's house is one of the worst. The foundations have been crushed and there is no obvious way to start clearing the mess. He must climb up a pile of stone three metres high to enter the complex, and balance across a metal roof that could easily collapse.

Advertisement

Advertisement

"I just clean up. When I find something, my belongings, I just pull it out. That's it," he said. "No one is helping each other here. Everyone is cleaning up one's house. Some people are still in shock. We continue to feel the shaking, about 200 or 300 times here."

He added: "I love this village. This is a very beautiful village, but now everything is destroyed."

Residents sift through their destroyed homes in search of their belongings. (Photo: Jack Board)

For decades, Barpak, along with the other communities throughout these hills, has been famous for the strength of its people: the ethnic Ghale people can be found in Gurkha army and police contingents around the world. The Gurkhas are known as fearsome hill-town warriors who were deployed by the British army since the mid 19th century.

In Singapore, Gurkhas serve in the special guard force and were well known to be stationed at the Istana and home of founding Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew. Including Jit, there are 14 men from Barpak who serve in Singapore.

Jeetmaya Ghale has not seen her son Yuvraaj since he left for a training course in Singapore. She is mostly left to clean up the rubble of her home alone, since he cannot return to Nepal. She was yet to make contact with him.

"I don't know what he is doing," she said. "I am totally out of contact but I think he was in his training. If my son was here he would rebuild our home. And he can manage everything,"



She added: "I'm ok son."

A child sits amid the rubble in Barpak. (Photo: Jack Board)

A boy plays in a destroyed neighbourhood of Barpak. (Photo: Jack Board)

Jit only has a matter of days left before he needs to return to Singapore. He says he is troubled by the decision to leave but he needs to continue support his family. Recovery in this mountain town, all but cut off from the outside world, is likely to take years. The wounds in many locals' hearts may never heal. "I have no words to say this, you can see here, so I have no words," he said.

The Ghale people have proven their strength again and again, here and overseas; even now their resilience will not be easily broken. "This is my home, but Singapore is also home and both have places in my heart," Jit said.
</text>