<url>
http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/may/12/nepal-earthquake-raf-helicopters-refused-access-by-authorities
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: RAF helicopters refused access by authorities
</headline>

<text>
Three Chinooks deployed to help quake victims remain in Delhi reportedly over Nepalese government concerns about their large size risking damage to buildings

Three RAF helicopters sent to help with the earthquake relief in Nepal are still waiting on the ground in Delhi even after the country was shaken by a second large earthquake.

The Department for International Development (DfID) confirmed on Tuesday that the Chinooks had not joined relief efforts in Nepal, after Nepalese authorities refused permission to enter the country.

The Nepalese government has officially said it does not want the Chinooks deployed because they were too big and could damage buildings when taking off and landing.

An anonymous source told the Times that he thought the refusal was down to opposition from Indian and Chinese authorities to allow foreign aircraft around their airspace.

Dozens killed as devastated Nepal suffers another strong earthquake Read more

That claim comes despite the fact that the US and a number of other countries have already deployed helicopters to help with relief efforts since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake which struck on 25 April.



The 7.3-magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal early on Tuesday has complicated relief and aid efforts following the earlier disaster, which is so far estimated to have claimed more than 8,000 lives.

The UK has contributed more than £23m towards the response to the crisis and the three RAF CH47 Chinook aircraft were to be a cornerstone of the British contribution to the search and rescue efforts across Nepal.

Described as the workhorse of the RAF, Chinook helicopters have a maximum load of about 10 tonnes of freight. Their maximum load of soldiers is around 55 but, in an evacuation, they can carry as many as 70 people for short journeys.

If embarking on missions from an airfield, the helicopters can carry out missions lasting about two-and-a-half hours before needing to be refuelled, depending on their load and the speed they travel.

Nepal hit by another major earthquake - in pictures Read more

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said there would be a contingent of between 30 and 40 crew and engineers waiting with the three Chinooks currently stuck in the Indian capital. Estimates of the cost to the UK taxpayer of keeping them there would be difficult to pick out, the MoD said.

Plans to fly the dismantled Chinooks to Nepal in transporter aircraft were first announced on 30 April. But Nepalese authorities were forced to close the international airport in Kathmandu after cracks appeared in the runway, forcing the UK to divert the helicopters to Delhi for reassembly.

A spokesman for Nepal’s foreign ministry told the Times: “We have told the British authorities that they cannot fly their Chinook helicopters here because our technical team says they are likely to damage houses and other buildings in the Kathmandu valley.”



A DfiD spokeswoman said: “UN agencies and other NGOs have indicated that additional helicopters are needed to deliver aid to remote areas inaccessible by road and the UK has sent the most appropriate equipment to support these efforts, including three Chinook helicopters.



“The Chinooks have been chosen to minimise any risk of damage to surrounding infrastructure and have been used effectively in similar environments including in Pakistan following the earthquake there in 2005. It is disappointing that the Chinooks and crews are in the area but are not yet operational and discussions with the Nepalese authorities are ongoing.

“The UK is doing everything it can to help Nepal recover from this disaster and is the largest donor to the relief effort, contributing more than £23m.”
</text>