<url>
http://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3283271/posts
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
New Jersey woman among victims of earthquake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Skip to comments.

New Jersey woman among victims of earthquake in Nepal

Posted on by Red in Blue PA

EAST ORANGE, N.J. -- A physician's assistant from New Jersey was among those killed in the earthquake in Nepal.

Marisa Eve Girawong had been working in Nepal for a company called Madison Mountaineering that posted the news of her death on its website.

East Orange hospital, where Girawong used to work, issued a statement offering sympathy and prayers to both her family and the people of Nepal.

Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering said that Girawong died in the aftermath of the avalanche that struck the climbers' base camp.



(Excerpt) Read more at 7online.com ...

TOPICS:

News/Current Events

KEYWORDS:

earthquake

nepal





Beautiful girl. Godspeed and RIP.



To: Red in Blue PA

Teach us all to number our days that we may be ever ready for your calling O’ Lord.



by 2 posted onby teletech (Say NO to RINOS!)

To: Red in Blue PA

Just read that there are 1,000 people stuck on various parts of Everest



by 3 posted onby nuconvert ( Khomeini promised change too // Hail, Chairman O)

To: nuconvert

This title reminds me of a small town newspaper satire done, I think, by Mad Magazine. A screaming headline reads, “VACATION OF LOCAL WOMAN INTERRUPTED” in smaller type beneath it continued, “When Japan Sinks Under Sea.” While I feel badly for the woman the press’ attempt to humanize every story with a local angle does no service for the news.



To: Gen.Blather

lol. exactly Just saw a headline that Indian Army Everest Expedition was training on Everest when the earthquake hit. I guess that may explain why the number of people there was so high.



by 5 posted onby nuconvert ( Khomeini promised change too // Hail, Chairman O)

To: nuconvert

On one newscast, someone who was interviewed said that getting to them and/or getting them off the mountain will be real tough. They don’t know what areas are still in danger and the means of providing help are decimated. (paraphrasing)



To: Red in Blue PA

In several trips to Nepal, I’ve always found the nation to be among the most beautiful, and the people among the most friendly and kindhearted, on Earth. Prayers for everyone involved.



To: grania

Just read that some of the severely wounded were taken off the mountain by helicopter this morning



by 8 posted onby nuconvert ( Khomeini promised change too // Hail, Chairman O)

To: nuconvert

The helicopters can’t reach all the base camps, for the climbers you could say that they died attempting to do something they loved. The climbers that die on the way up are left there, I wonder if they will remove the bodies of the climbers at the base camp or maybe move the camp?



by 9 posted onby Chainsawj (Killing is my business and business is good.)

To: Jack Hammer

I know I first went for the mountains and scenery but kept returning (5 trips in all) for the people.



Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic , LLC, PO BOX 9771, FRESNO, CA 93794

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson
</text>