<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3078715/US-Marine-helicopter-two-Nepalese-soldiers-six-U-S-Marines-board-disappeared-Nepal-providing-earthquake-relief.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
US Marine helicopter disappears in Nepal while providing earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
U.S. officials say a U.S. Marine Corps helicopter with eight people on board that was providing assistance in the wake of the Nepal earthquake is missing.

The UH-1Y Huey with two Nepalese soldiers and six U.S. Marines on board disappeared over Charikot, Nepal, said spokesman, Army Maj. Dave Eastburn. Their identities have not yet been revealed.

The helicopter was one of three Marine Corps UH-1Y Hueys participating in earthquake relief operations following last month's 7.8 magnitude tremor.

Scroll down for video

Aid: Nepalese service members load relief supplies into a U.S. Marine Corps UH-1Y Venom from Joint Task Force 505 at Sindhuli, Nepal on May 11, 2015 a day before one of three of these helicopters went missing

The aircraft is part of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 based at Camp Pendleton in San Diego.

Last month's disaster has been followed by aftershocks, including a major 7.3 magnitude tremor earlier on Tuesday.

A 90-minute search by three Marine Corps V-22 tilt-rotor aircraft failed to locate the aircraft before nightfall and the air search was suspended.

A ground search by Nepalese troops was continuing, said Army Colonel Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman.

'Essentially what we have right now is truly a missing helicopter. We simply don't know its location,' Warren said, noting that the area is 'rugged and mountainous' and any radio transmissions from the helicopter might not be heard due to the mountains.

Army Major Dave Eastburn, a spokesman for U.S. Pacific Command, said the helicopter was carrying the U.S. and Nepalese forces when it went missing in the area of Charikot village, which was in the area hardest hit by Tuesday's aftershock.

Warren said an Indian helicopter working in the quake zone had overheard radio chatter from the U.S. helicopter about 'fuel issues' before it went missing.

Missing: The UH-1Y Huey with two Nepalese soldiers and six U.S. Marines on board disappeared over Charikot, Nepal, said the spokesman, Army Maj. Dave Eastburn

Providing aid: The aircraft is part of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 (pictured) currently providing aid to the damaged region of Nepal

Warren said it was not clear whether the helicopter might have been low on fuel or if there was a problem with its fuel lines.

'The UH-1 had launched to deliver tarps and rice,' Warren said.

'Because of the terrain (it) had not been in contact for approximately two hours. No emergency beacon has been detected at this time.'

Marine Brigadier General Paul Kennedy, deputy commander of the III Marine Expeditionary Force, was directing the rescue effort. U.S. Air Force pararescue forces, who could be air-dropped into the area, had rehearsed and were available if needed, Warren said.

A Nepalese air brigade reported seeing the U.S. helicopter at a location some 40 miles (65 km) east of the capital Kathmandu, but the three aircraft sent to search the area did not spot it during the hunt before dark, Warren said.

A UH-1Y Huey helicopter, similar to the one pictured, went missing in Nepal on Tuesday but did not necessarily crash, said a military official who added it was 'too dark' to tell

Damage: Rescue teams look for survivors in the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu following the 7.3 earthquake shook Nepal, with the epicenter near Mt. Everest, bringing down buildings in Kathmandu

NBC reports that a military official told them there is 'no indication that there was a crash' but 'it is dark,' so they could not immediately confirm that.

Navy Capt. Chris Sims says the Huey was conducting disaster relief operations near Charikot, Nepal, on Tuesday.

Tuesday's magnitude-7.3 quake, centered midway between Kathmandu and Mount Everest, struck hardest in the foothills of the Himalayas, triggering some landslides, but it also shook the capital badly, sending thousands of terrified people into the streets.

This less than three weeks after a quake devastated the region, leaving 8,000 dead and thousands homeless.

Nepal's Parliament was in session when the quake hit, and frightened lawmakers ran for the exits as the building shook and the lights flickered out.

A UH-1Y Huey helicopter, similar to the one pictured, with two Nepalese soldiers and six U.S. Marines on board disappeared on Tuesday over Charikot, Nepal

Aftershock: The quake's epicentre was close to Everest Base Camp, which was evacuated after an avalanche triggered by the April 25 quake killed 18 climbers

At least 68 people were killed in the quake, reports KTLA.

and more than 1,100 were injured, according to the Home Ministry.

But that toll was expected to rise as reports began reaching Kathmandu of people in isolated Himalayan towns and villages being buried under rubble, according to the U.N.'s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.

Tremors radiated across parts of Asia. In neighboring India, at least 16 people were confirmed dead after rooftops or walls collapsed onto them, according to India's Home Ministry. Chinese media reported one death in Tibet.

The magnitude-7.8 earthquake that hit April 25 killed more than 8,150 and flattened entire villages, leaving hundreds of thousands homeless in the country's worst-recorded quake since 1934. The U.S. Geological Survey said Tuesday's earthquake was the largest aftershock to date of that destructive quake.

Second quake: Nepalese citizens race into the streets of Kathmandu, Nepal, in response to a 7.3 magnitude aftershock hitting the country

Scared: Frightened residents in the capital, who had returned to their homes only a few days ago, once again set up tents Tuesday night with plans to sleep in empty fields, parking lots and on sidewalks

Change: Nepalese citizens gather in the streets in response to the aftershock hitting the country killing at least 37 people and injuring over 1,000

Tuesday's temblor was deeper, however, coming from a depth of 18.5 kilometers (11.5 miles) versus the earlier one at 15 kilometers (9.3 miles). Shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage.

At least three people were rescued Tuesday in Kathmandu, while another nine pulled to safety in the district of Dolkha, the government said.

Rescue helicopters were sent to mountain districts where landslides and collapsed buildings may have buried people, the government said. Home Ministry official Laxmi Dhakal said the Sindhupalchowk and Dolkha districts were the worst hit.

Search parties fanned out to look for survivors in the wreckage of collapsed buildings in Sindhupalchowk's town of Chautara, which had become a hub for humanitarian aid after last month's quake.

Impoverished Nepal appealed for billions of dollars in aid from foreign nations, as well as medical experts to treat the wounded and helicopters to ferry food and temporary shelters to hundreds of thousands left homeless amid unseasonal rains.

In Washington, Navy Capt. Chris Sims said the missing Huey helicopter was conducting disaster relief operations near Charikot, Nepal.

Assistance: U.S. Marines and Nepalese soldiers, pictured on May 7, prepares to transport food, water, and shelter supplies to the Nepalese in the rural areas of Nepal

Officials are hopeful the aircraft is simply missing because there has been no smoke or other sign of a crash.

Other U.S. aircraft had searched the area, but due to darkness, members of the Nepalese military are conducting the search on foot, Warren said. The incident is under investigation.

Tuesday's quake was followed closely by at least 10 strong aftershocks, according to the USGS.

Early reports indicated at least two buildings had collapsed in Kathmandu, though at least one had been unoccupied due to damage it sustained on April 25. Experts say the earlier quake caused extensive structural damage even in buildings that did not topple, and that many could be in danger of collapse.

Frightened residents in the capital, who had returned to their homes only a few days ago, once again set up tents Tuesday night with plans to sleep in empty fields, parking lots and on sidewalks.

'Everyone was saying the earthquakes are over. ... Now I don't want to believe anyone,' said 40-year-old produce vendor Ram Hari Sah as he searched for a spot to pitch the orange tarpaulin to shelter his family.

In heed: Nepalese citizens prepare for change after a second earthquake hit their region and killed dozens more

'We are all scared, we are terrified. I would rather deal with mosquitoes and the rain than sleep in the house.'

Extra police were sent to patrol ad-hoc camping areas, while drinking water and extra tents were being provided, according to Kathmandu administrator Ek Narayan Aryal.

'I thought I was going to die this time,' said Sulav Singh, who rushed with his daughter into a street in the suburban neighborhood of Thapathali.

'Things were just getting back to normal, and we get this one.'

Paul Dillon, a spokesman with the International Organization for Migration, said he saw a man in Kathmandu who had apparently run from the shower with shampoo covering his head. "He was sitting on the ground, crying," Dillon said.

Meanwhile, new landslides blocked mountain roads in the district of Gorkha, one of the regions hit hardest on April 25, while previously damaged buildings collapsed with the latest quake.

Residents of the small town of Namche Bazaar, about 50 kilometers (35 miles) from the epicenter of Tuesday's quake and a well-known spot for high-altitude trekkers, said a couple of buildings damaged earlier had collapsed there as well. However, there were no reports of deaths or injuries in the town.

The earth also shook strongly across the border in Tibet, unleashing a landslide that killed one person and injured three, according to China Central Television. Two houses also collapsed, the state broadcaster said, quoting disaster relief headquarters of the regional Tibetan government

About 300 American personnel are on the ground in Nepal.
</text>