<url>
http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/society/nepalese-community-in-uae-shaken-again-by-quake-in-nepal-1.1509680
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese community in UAE shaken again by quake in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Dubai: Nepalese expatriates in the UAE are reliving the nightmare of April 25, after a major earthquake hit their country on Tuesday morning — just two weeks after a deadly temblor claimed at least 8,000 lives in that country.

A 7.4 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal on Tuesday with the epicentre at Namche Bazaar, near Mount Everest, according to the US Geological Survey.

The earlier quake, considered the strongest in 80 years, flattened out villages and destroyed centuries-old buildings.

The Nepalese community in the UAE have been reeling from the effects of the April 25 earthquake, many of them still unable to rebuild their homes.

Many of those whose families barely escaped the last time suffered equally badly this time.

“Just now I got shocking news that my house had just collapsed,” Gopal Kandel, General Secretary of the Non-Resident Nepalese Association, told Gulf News. “Thankfully my family made it out just in time. They’re safe.”

“During the first earthquake, the house was left with cracks. But the second earthquake left the house destroyed.”

Kandel helped build their two-storey house in Pokhara, 72km from the capital. Four members of his family including his wife and mother live in the house.

“Now, we’re homeless,” Kandel said in shock.

Arjun Khatiwada, 24, who works for a catering company, heaved a sigh of relief after learning that his family was safe. But the constant threat of earthquakes has been keeping him awake at night.

“I have not been able to sleep since the first quake, and now this. When I go on duty, I can’t work very well. The tension is just too much,” Khatiwada told Gulf News.

Khatiwada’s house was flattened in the first quake. His family has since been living in a makeshift tent just right outside the rubble of what they once called home.

“I helped send money to build that house. And I had a new one built as well. But the quake destroyed both. My sister just called saying they got out of their house and it’s full of cracks, too.”

“My father, who is 67 years old, is very scared. They’re crying and calling for help,” Khatiwada added.

Raju Gurung, 21, who works at a fitness facility, worries for his family, too. His family erected a tent to live in as their house was extensively damaged.

“I don’t know what to do,” Gurung said. “I feel lost; we don’t have anything right now.”

Vim Aryal, Gurung’s colleague, said they’re lucky their house survived with just a few cracks in it. But no one knows for sure how safe it is to live in.

“There are cracks in the walls but it should be safe. It’s getting very frustrating. You want to do more to help but you can’t.”
</text>