<url>
http://www.townsvillebulletin.com.au/news/world/magnitude-74-earthquake-rocks-nepal/story-fnjbobeg-1227352213272
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
New magnitude 7.4 earthquake rocks Nepal
</headline>

<text>
AS the death toll from the second Nepalese earthquake continues to rise, the US Army confirms a helicopter involved in disaster relief efforts is missing.

A US Marine Corps helicopter carrying six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers was reported missing while delivering disaster aid in north-eastern Nepal, U.S. officials said.

An aircraft search had spotted no sign of smoke or a crash site by nightfall, raising hopes the helicopter may have made a safe emergency landing, Pentagon spokesman Colonel Steven Warren said.

The US Geological Survey said the quake hit in an isolated area about 5.30AEST. The fault was reportedly 19km beneath the Earth’s surface. More shallow earthquakes tend to cause more damage at the surface.

The death toll stands at 48, but is likely to rise.

The scare comes after an earthquake on April 25 killed more than 8150 people and injured more than 17,860 as it flattened mountain villages and destroyed buildings.

Nepal’s home ministry said 1117 people had been injured in the latest quake which hit in remote mountain districts in the northeast.

Chautara buildings after the new quake. Most were still occupied despite damage from the 1st EQ. #NepalEarthquake pic.twitter.com/qvYo9TgcJw — Tino Kreutzer (@tinokreutzer) May 12, 2015

DEATHS, COLLAPSES IN CHAUTARA

Early reports suggest the new quake has killed at least four people in the remote town of Chautara which also suffered severely in last month’s quake.

Nepal earthquake

An official with an International Organization for Migration said a number of buildings collapsed in Chautara.

IOM spokesman Paul Dillon said a search and rescue team had already begun searching through the wreckage of the little town.

The Norwegian Red Cross, which was helping people from the April 25 earthquake at a 60-bed hospital in Chautara added in a Twitter posting that their hospital tents already had received new patients.

Streets deserted and shops closed as people have fled to humanitarian hub uphill. pic.twitter.com/fykniAe9Dj — Tino Kreutzer (@tinokreutzer) May 12, 2015

Chautara has become a hub for humanitarian aid in the wake of the April 25 hub, with dozens of aid workers now based there to send help deeper into the countryside.

The 7.4 quake was followed less than 30 minutes later by a magnitude 5.6 aftershock, and a short time after another 6.2. There has since been a total of six heavy aftershocks.

DAMAGE ASSESSMENT

Rescue helicopters were immediately sent to districts northeast of the capital of Kathmandu that Nepal believes were hardest hit by the quake.

The government was having trouble contacting people in the area, Home Ministry spokesman Laxmi Dhakal said, but initial reports suggested there was damage in Sindhupalchowk and Dolkha districts.

The quake caused landslides around Chautara, and more than 100 people had been injured in surrounding villages, chief district officer Krishna Gyawali said.

The quake was felt as far away as New Delhi, and officials said it caused buildings to collapse in Tibet in neighbouring China.

KATHMANDU WITNESS

Melbourne man Adam Cathro, media relations manager for Plan Australia, was in Kathmandu when the latest tremor struck.

“It was just a loud thump and then the aftershock alarm went off very quickly,” Mr Cathro said.

“The ground swayed violently for 30 seconds and all the locals just ran outside.’’

Hundreds of people running of out of Kathmandu airport. Scary shaking from aftershock #NepalQuake pic.twitter.com/XiIdB0BCCS — Jack Board (@JackBoard) May 12, 2015

That was genuine panic from people here. They've seen this before. Everyone is ok, still shaking though #NepalQuake — Jack Board (@JackBoard) May 12, 2015

“It was just a loud thump and then the aftershock alarm went off very quickly.”

He said it was to early to access if there had been more casualties but there were concerns for people working in and around structures that had been weakened by the initial quake.

Mr Cathro is on the ground in Kathmandu as Plan Australia continues its work to provide services for children and families affected by the disaster.

Motorcyclists jam streets. Everyone on their cell phones. Cars disobey traffic rules to overtake. We've learned nothing. #NepalEarthquake — Anup Kaphle (@AnupKaphle) May 12, 2015

“We have seen the worst, we are now just hoping for the best,” Mr Cathro said.

KATHMANDU IN SHOCK

In the capital of Kathmandu, the quake sent Nepalese people rushing outside of their homes into the streets. Unconfirmed reports suggest a series of new building collapses in the Naya Bazar and Bus Park areas.

The quake was positioned near the Chinese border between the capital Kathmandu and Mt Everest. It was reportedly felt across northern India and as far away as New Delhi.

USGS says it was a 7.4. I stood under a hallway door between two pillars and counted at least 26 seconds. #NepalEarthquake — Anup Kaphle (@AnupKaphle) May 12, 2015

The tremors in Kathmandu lasted close to a minute according to an AFP correspondent in the city, with the ground swaying. Sirens could be heard soon afterwards although there were no immediate reports of casualties.

People were seen running screaming onto the streets of Kathmandu and nearby cities, while telephone connections were down.

“Looks like Nepal will be destroyed completely this time,” one resident shouted, while others were putting up tents in open spaces that they had only recently taken down.

media_camera Evacuation ... Nepalese patients are carried out of a hospital building as a 7.4 magnitude earthquake hits the country, in Kathmandu. Source: AFP

PATIENTS EVACUATED

The main hospital in Kathmandu, patients injured in last month’s quake were being wheeled out in wheelchairs.

People could be seen frantically calling their families as medical attendants rushed to set up tents in the parking lot.

The capital was filled with the sound of car horns as desperate residents rushed to get back home to check on loved ones.

Aftershock M7.4 Damage to the @SC_Nepal operations room. Katmandu staff safe. Checking field staff @SC_Humanitarian pic.twitter.com/MhC9PjL4ld — Michel Rooijackers (@michel_sci) May 12, 2015

Pramita Tamrakar, who had only just reopened her family’s furniture store, said she had rushed out onto the street after grabbing her eight-year-old son and 12 year-old daughter.

“We thought the tremors had ceased, so we thought we would start work again,” she told AFP.

“I don’t understand what is going on. I saw in the news the day before yesterday that the risk was lower, it wouldn’t happen again ... and today we had a big one. I am very scared. My children are also very scared.”

media_camera Anxious wait ... People talk on their mobiles as they wait outside a building after exiting as a tremor struck New Delhi after a new earthquake of 7.4-magnitude and several powerful aftershocks hit devastated Nepal. Source: AFP

NATION ON HOLD

Three aftershocks were felt in the following minutes, as shops started shutting and people tried to stock up on food.

Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport, the main entry point for flights bringing in international aid since the April quake, was closed anew as a precaution.

Communications, including internet services, have been intermittent but largely remained active.

Please stay in open field, help us make free road, do not make phone nw busy. SMS is suggested. — Nepal Police (@NepalPoliceHQ) May 12, 2015

Three major landslides have been reported in the vicinity of Kathmandu, and avalanches have been sighted from the Mt Everest Base Camp.

Quake-prone Nepal is located where the Indian tectonic plate runs into, and under, the Eurasian Plate.

Relief teams from around the world are still working to provide water, food and medical assistance to Nepalis following the April 25 quake.

Originally published as Nepal quake: relief chopper missing
</text>