<url>
http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-1-317683-Human-traffickers-target-Nepal-relief-camps
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Human traffickers target Nepal relief camps
</headline>

<text>
Human traffickers target Nepal relief camps

Human traffickers target Nepal relief camps

Relief camps and temporary shelters in the quake affected areas of Nepal are being targeted by human traffickers who try to lure women into sex trade across the borders, NGOs have warned.

Campaigners believe traffickers and criminal gangs are posing as aid workers to gain access to thousands of women who have been rendered homeless.

More than 7,500 people have died and 14,500 people injured when a 7.8 magnitude quake hit the Himalayan country on April 25.

Shakti Samuha, a local NGO told reporters they intercepted the first case of human trafficking from a relief camp in Rautahat district on May 10, Saturday.

“A young girl was offered a job, and taken to a hotel where she was forced to entertain clients. We got a tip off and police have arrested the men,” said Sunita Danuwar, President of Shakti Samuha, that has been working to protect women from trafficking. She said the girl is currently in a government rescue home, and the police are investigating the case.

“There could be many more cases like this now. There are thousands of women and young girls who are at risk. They are living under the open skies and many are without families. They are easy targets for traffickers,” Danuwar said.

Shakti Samuha has four shelter homes in Nepal for trafficked women, and more than 700 currently live in these safe houses run by the local NGO.

Nepal has a chequered history on human trafficking, and according to UN statistics, nearly 15,000 Nepalese women are yearly trafficked across the border, and many end up in brothels in India and even as far as Korea, Malaysia and the Gulf countries.

Most victims come from impoverished and economically backward rural areas with limited opportunities and low literacy rates. The Nepal Human Development Report (2004) estimates approximately 20 per cent who are trafficked to India and other countries in Asia are under the age of 16.

Danuwar said their volunteers are organising awareness campaigns inside relief camps and teaching women how not to fall prey to traffickers who masquerade as aid workers and offer them employment opportunities and better living conditions.

“Along with our aid distribution in affected areas, we have specially trained volunteers who counsel women individually and in groups on the dangers of human trafficking how to identify traffickers and keep away from them,” Danuwar said.

Plan International, another NGO with operations in Nepal, that specialises in protecting the rights of women and children said trafficking of women and children is a serious concern.

“When desperation of people increases, their risk also increases,” Mike Bruce, Regional media and advocacy specialist, Plan International told reporters.

“This is the time people tend to leap into potential opportunities for employment abroad or marriage proposals without properly scrutinising the legitimacy of the offers,” said Bruce.

The existing migrant work culture in the Himalayan country, and the open borders with India, he said, makes it easy for illegal recruiters and traffickers to snatch young girls and women away from their families.

In the last two years alone, Bruce said Plan International has intercepted 229 human trafficking cases at the Nepal borders with the help of their volunteers and government agencies.

He also raised the red flag on children at the risk of being trafficked domestically for child labour and into sex trade.

“Many children living in the relief camps are orphaned or separated from their families. Some parents go to work leaving children alone in these camps.”

The NGO said it is setting up Protection Centres and Community Information centres in relief camps in worst hit districts like Sindhupalchok, Kavrepalachok and Dolakha to counter the menace of human trafficking.

“We are organising awareness programmes for teachers and parents and help them identify and report traffickers and victims. We also work in close coordination with local law enforcement authorities to intercept trafficking bids at the borders,” said Bruce.


</text>