<url>
http://newarkadvertiser.co.uk/articles/news/Nepal-born-doctor-speaks-of-traumatic-trip
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal-born doctor speaks of
</headline>

<text>
News Southwell Nepal-born doctor speaks of "traumatic" trip to earthquake-hit country Poll



Nepal-born doctor speaks of "traumatic" trip to earthquake-hit country Tweet A doctor said returning to his homeland of Nepal to help the thousands of people affected by the earthquake was one of the darkest moments of his life.



He was born in Nepal and his parents still live there.



Dr Bajracharya came back from the country on Saturday, after spending nine days there giving out medical aid to survivors.



The earthquake, with a 7.8 magnitude, has killed more than 8,000 people and injured more than 18,000.



Dr Bajracharya said he did not have a plan of action while out in Nepal because he didn't know where medical aid was being handed out.



He said he spent the first couple of days visiting hospitals in villages to get a feel of the devastation caused.



"I ended up going out to a village called Sallegaun about 14 miles outside of the capital," he said.



"I went by minibus which took hours but we had to abandon it (the trip) because the roads were so bad."



Dr Bajracharya said that, even nine days after the earthquake, no medical aid had reached the village.







"All of the 80-plus houses were destroyed but there were no casualties.



"Perhaps that's why they were neglected but most of the people are still living in a state of shock."







He set up a mobile clinic in different villages outside Kathmandu to help treat the survivors.



"Even though these people have lost everything there was good community spirit," he said.



"People were offering me food and making sure I was hydrated. The generosity was incredible."



Dr Bajracharya said while in Nepal he heard a story about a man who escaped from his house during the earthquake.



Afterwards, the man went back inside to get his mobile phone and there was an aftershock.







"I also spoke to a man whose young daughter was killed," he said.



"Seeing the devastation was so stressful and traumatic. It was one of the darkest moments of my life.



"I wish I could have done more to help."



Another earthquake hit Nepal today, with a 7.4 magnitude.



It struck 68km west of the town of Namche Bazar, close to Mount Everest.



Dr Bajracharya said he had spoken to his family who are all OK.



"They will probably be spending the next couple of nights sleeping outside for safety," he said.



"They have been very lucky again."



He thanked Southwell Medical Centre and the local shops including Boots and Lloyds Pharmacy who donated medical aid.



"My work have been very good to me and the generosity of people in Southwell has been breathtaking," he said.



"Nepal still needs a huge amount of help and it will take years before people can rebuild their lives."



To donate to the Nepal appeal visit the Just Giving page. Dr Amit Bajracharya, 35, of Fiskerton, works at Southwell Medical Centre.He was born in Nepal and his parents still live there.Dr Bajracharya came back from the country on Saturday, after spending nine days there giving out medical aid to survivors.The earthquake, with a 7.8 magnitude, has killed more than 8,000 people and injured more than 18,000.Dr Bajracharya said he did not have a plan of action while out in Nepal because he didn't know where medical aid was being handed out.He said he spent the first couple of days visiting hospitals in villages to get a feel of the devastation caused."I ended up going out to a village called Sallegaun about 14 miles outside of the capital," he said."I went by minibus which took hours but we had to abandon it (the trip) because the roads were so bad."Dr Bajracharya said that, even nine days after the earthquake, no medical aid had reached the village."It was frightening," he said."All of the 80-plus houses were destroyed but there were no casualties."Perhaps that's why they were neglected but most of the people are still living in a state of shock."He set up a mobile clinic in different villages outside Kathmandu to help treat the survivors."Even though these people have lost everything there was good community spirit," he said."People were offering me food and making sure I was hydrated. The generosity was incredible."Dr Bajracharya said while in Nepal he heard a story about a man who escaped from his house during the earthquake.Afterwards, the man went back inside to get his mobile phone and there was an aftershock.Dr Bajracharya said the the house fell down and killed the man."I also spoke to a man whose young daughter was killed," he said."Seeing the devastation was so stressful and traumatic. It was one of the darkest moments of my life."I wish I could have done more to help."Another earthquake hit Nepal today, with a 7.4 magnitude.It struck 68km west of the town of Namche Bazar, close to Mount Everest.Dr Bajracharya said he had spoken to his family who are all OK."They will probably be spending the next couple of nights sleeping outside for safety," he said."They have been very lucky again."He thanked Southwell Medical Centre and the local shops including Boots and Lloyds Pharmacy who donated medical aid."My work have been very good to me and the generosity of people in Southwell has been breathtaking," he said."Nepal still needs a huge amount of help and it will take years before people can rebuild their lives."To donate to the Nepal appeal visit

By commenting you are agreeing to our Terms and Conditions. Read our comments and complaints policy

Catherine Hancock Posted by



Latest news News by area Newark Southwell Bingham
</text>