<url>
http://www.bendbulletin.com/localstate/3102520-151/around-the-state
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Around the state
</headline>

<text>
A- A+

Woman crashes into bridge — Authorities said a woman stole an SUV from a Milwaukie hospital and crashed it on the Hawthorne Bridge. Milwaukie Police said Alicia Nicole Davis approached a woman sitting in her car in the hospital’s parking lot and threatened to use a knife if the woman did not give her the keys. The 32-year-old Davis then drove the carjacked vehicle to Portland. She broke through the guardrail on the Hawthorne Bridge onramp and crashed into a building. She was transported to the hospital with unknown injuries. Police said another woman, who was on the sidewalk below the bridge, was hit by flying debris from the crash. She was transported to the hospital with an arm injury. Davis faces charges of second-degree robbery and unauthorized use of a motor vehicle.

Nepal earthquake reaction — Portland-based Mercy Corps is organizing to provide relief to the hundreds of people who were affected by the deadly earthquake in Nepal. CEO Neal Keny-Guyer said the group is assessing the situation on the ground following Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake. More than 1,800 are thought to be dead in Nepal, with the toll expected to rise. Keny-Guyer said Mercy Corps has a large team in Nepal and is checking on the safety of its team members and assessing the situation.

Strip club shooting — Three people have been injured in a shooting at a Portland strip club. Portland police said the shooting early Saturday at Portland Exotica International Club may be gang related. When officers responded to the club just before 2 a.m., they found a security guard who had been shot. His injuries are not life-threatening, and he was transported to a Portland hospital for treatment. Officers later received information that two other gunshot victims arrived by private car at an area hospital, both with non-life-threatening injuries. Investigators said these two victims are likely associated with the shooting at Exotica. Police said they do not have any information about a suspect at this time.

Police shooting deemed justified — A Multnomah County grand jury has cleared a Portland police officer who fatally shot a man armed with a double-bladed knife last month. The grand jury found no criminal wrongdoing by officer Thomas Clark, and determined he was justified in shooting 36-year-old Christopher Ryan Healy during a burglary. The 36-year-old Healy was homeless and was originally from Erie, Pennsylvania. Healy was fatally wounded when he advanced on two officers with a 10-inch, double-bladed knife. Officials said Clark fired two shots after Healy got too close; the other officer used a stun gun on the man. The confrontation happened after a neighbor who saw Healy break into his duplex called police. Authorities say another neighbor had allowed Healy to stay at her place, causing a neighborhood dispute.

9766715
</text>