<url>
http://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/local/hamiltoncounty/2015/05/12/never-crossed-mind-anything-bad-happen/27189793/
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
'Never crossed my mind that anything bad would happen'
</headline>

<text>
Newtown Village Councilman Joe Harten, right. and his son Graeme on the trail to Mount Everest base camp. (Photo: Provided) Story Highlights "Very little that any of us in Cincinnati have to deal with rises to the level of losing your house in an earthquake and having to live under a tarpaulin while it rains every day for the next four months."

They had just taken a three-hour, round-trip hike to 12,500 feet on the world's tallest mountain.

Exhausted, Joe Harten and his son collapsed onto their cots.

Then the cots began to move.

"The shaking initially felt like someone was rocking our building," said Joe Harten, a 51-year-old Newtown village councilman who took up mountain climbing six years ago.

Graeme Harten, 21, said, "I think we then realized at about the same time that it was a serious earthquake as rocks started falling and things fell over. We were on the second floor of the hotel and sprinted to get out."

The Hartens' dream to climb to a Mount Everest base camp nearly 17,600 feet in the air had just morphed into an international nightmare.

The quake

The 7.8-magnitude earthquake that hit Nepal April 25 was followed by a a series of aftershocks that registered as high as 6.7 on the Richter scale. Those continued Wednesday, including two that were around magnitude 5.

Aftershocks continued to strike Wednesday, including at least two that hit shortly after noon, each around magnitude-5. So far, the quakes have killed 8,046 people, injured 16,972and left 569 missing, according to the latest numbers released by the Nepal Red Cross Society.

Among the death toll from the initial April 25 earthquake were 18 people buried in an avalanche on Mount Everest, making it the deadliest season ever on the 29,000-foot-tall behemoth.

When the earthquake hit, Joe and Graeme Harten were in a two-story wooden building with stacked-rock sides in Namche Bazaar, awaiting a lunch of sandwiches, potatoes, fruit and Tang.

"We really weren't scared in the moment," Joe Harten said. "Adrenaline was flowing and we just started running. It hit us more after we were out of the building."

Once outdoors, they witnessed a lot of confusion, with some people trying to make phone calls to see what was going on. Cell service, they found, was very spotty and no one was able to get good information.

Harten said his group of climbers milled around for a while and then, as if there was safety in routine, the staff put out lunch.

Gradually, the group begun to learn the severity of the quake.

The Hartens were able to call home the day after the earthquake via a satellite phone provided by Mountain Madness. They tried to assure Joe's wife and Graeme's mom, Susan, that they were fine.

They were. But Harten said aftershocks continued for the next couple of days and nights.

"That may have been more scary than the first one because we knew what it was," said Joe Harten, "and more buildings started to collapse. What was worse was the screaming from the villagers and the sirens.

"It was a very lonely and vulnerable feeling."

Getting there

Lonely and vulnerable were not the kinds of feelings Joe Harten expected to experience at Mount Everest.

Exhilaration was more like it.

On first viewing the Himalayas, he was not disappointed by their height or beauty.

"You think you know about mountains from being in the Rockies, but the scope and scale of the high Himalayas is an entirely different situation," he said. "Incredibly high, outrageously steep – words don't do them justice."

Before this trip, the highest Joe and Graeme Harten had ever climbed was to the summit of Grand Teton in Wyoming, which is just short of 14,000 feet. That climb was in celebration of Graeme's 16th birthday.

"I often say that it's a good thing I didn't climb my first mountain until I was 45," Joe Harten said. "If I had done it in my 20s, that's all I ever would have done."

The Hartens never planned to summit Mount Everest on their trip to Nepal.

"However, even going to Everest base camp is a significant physical challenge," Joe Harten said.

Harten and his son spent about $8,000 each for the Mount Everest trip, which included climbing to the base camp with a Seattle-based mountain-climbing guide service called "Mountain Madness."

Mountain Madness offered a good blend of mountaineering experience and cultural immersion. The group's leader, Deana Zabaldo, had been a Peace Corps volunteer in Nepal, and has spent, off and on, 15 years there. She now speaks Nepali fluently. That meant she could really help the group understand the locals and their culture.

"Mountain Madness" may be familiar to anyone who has read "Into Thin Air," Jon Krauker's bestselling book about a May 1996 storm on Mount Everest that killed eight climbers.

"The founder of Mountain Madness, Scott Fischer, died on Everest in 1996 and I've always had a soft spot in my heart for them because of that," Joe Harten said.

In addition to acknowleding the deaths in 1996, Harten knew that 16 Nepalese guides had been killed in an avalanche on Mount Everest just a year ago, on April 18, 2014.

But Harten said he never worried about surviving his climb to a Mount Everest base camp.

"It never crossed my mind that anything bad would happen."

The climb

Climbing Mount Everest was supposed to mark a turning point in the lives of the Harten family.

Graeme Harten had just graduated from Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, and is starting a job as a bond specialist in New York City in July.

"It was going to be somewhat of a bittersweet final father-son trip," said the father, "before he moved away from home."

The Hartens were among 20 Americans and Canadians ranging in age from 21 to 70 who were in the Mountain Madness group and had signed up for what was to be a three-week trek, starting and ending in Kathmandu.

"After a couple of introductory touring days in Kathmandu, we flew to Lukla, elevation 9,000 feet, where we met our Sherpa guides and porters," Joe Harten said.

"Past Lukla, the terrain is far too steep for motorized vehicles. Everything is carried by yaks, dzokios – yak-cow hybrids – or humans," Harten said.

The Hartens' group spent its first night in a tea house in Phakding, at 8,000 feet.

"The next day we ascended to Namche Bazaar, elevation 11,500 feet, and spent the following morning (April 25) on an acclimatization hike to 12,500 feet," Joe Harten said.

The climbers carried 15-pound day packs and ran into no snow, ice or crevasses, although they did have to cross half a dozen high-suspension bridges.

"It's steep, and the footing can be treacherous, especially when yaks are passing you in the opposite direction, but it's effectively like climbing a never-ending set of uneven rocky stairs," Joe Harten said.

Then came the earthquake, which put an end to their careful climbs.

Namche layover

The Hartens' group waited in Namche Bazaar for three days.

"Our guides determined that going forward was not appropriate, given the condition of the trail and the casualties at Everest base camp, and we didn't want to rush back to Kathmandu while recovery efforts were still underway," Joe Harten said.

So, the group stayed in Namche and hiked to other villages to survey damage. They saw utter devastation.

"The conditions in the more remote villages are quite bad, with nearly every house uninhabitable," Harten said "That is a huge problem as the monsoon season is approaching."

The monsoons will likely bring heavy rains, landslide, disease.

They had seen a lot. It was time for the Hartens to get home. They headed back to Lukla for a flight to Kathmandu.

"As we hiked down to the airport at Lukla, we saw tons of homes that had completely collapsed as well as where rock slides had ripped through parts of the trail we had hiked only a few days before," Graeme Harten said.

Joe Harten said Mountain Madness and the U.S. Embassy did a great job taking care of them in Nepal and getting them transportation.

"We never stayed outside and we were never hungry," Harten said.

They arrived home May 4.

Lessons learned

Joe Harten says he's not traumatized by the experience in Nepal.

"I am fine, but I now have very little tolerance for Western minutiae," he said. "Very little that any of us in Cincinnati have to deal with rises to the level of losing your house in an earthquake and having to live under a tarpaulin while it rains every day for the next four months. It would be good for all of us to have a little better perspective the next time someone cuts us off in traffic or messes up our coffee order."

Since most people in Nepal are Hindu or Buddhist, Harten read up on the religions a little before his trip.

"Buddhism teaches acceptance, and I've tried to adopt that attitude in dealing with my disappointment of not getting to Everest," Harten said.

"A true Buddhist would simply say that it was not to be, it's no one's fault, it just wasn't my destiny to get to Everest this time. But it also wasn't my destiny to be injured or killed along the way," Harten said, adding he would be happy to make the journey again, just to the base camp.

Graeme Harten has a different perspective.

"I have always said that I want to climb all the way to the top of Mount Everest, but this experience is definitely making me reconsider," Harten said.

"The Himalayas were absolutely stunning and I did not suffer like any of the other climbers from altitude problems or other sicknesses," said the young man. "But this is the second year in a row where the climbing season has been canceled due to tragedy."

"It seems selfish to take on such a dangerous climb after putting family and friends through a great deal of stress this time around."

The Mountain Madness group that included Joe and Graeme Harten established an account at www.gofundme.com called "Rebuilding Nepal's Villages" to raise money for the people of Nepal.

Type in the name "Deana Zabaldo" on the website to donate.

Read or Share this story: http://cin.ci/1bNcDrW
</text>