<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/nelson-mail/68495648/latest-nepal-quake-beyond-belief--nelsonians-encourage-more-help
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Craig Potton prints to help Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Craig Potton prints to help Nepal

Alden Williams/Fairfax NZ Craig Potton is fundraising for Nepal by selling his work.

A second massive earthquake in Nepal means even greater need for relief efforts, with Nelsonians wanting to play their part.

The earthquake hit on Tuesday 7pm NZ time, bringing down buildings weakened by the first disaster and killing at least 66 people, including 17 in neighbouring India and one in Chinese Tibet.

Most of the reported fatalities were in villages and towns east of Kathmandu, only just beginning to pick up the pieces from the April 25 quake that left more than 8000 dead.

The new 7.3-magnitude quake was centred 76 km east of the capital in a hilly area close to the border with Tibet, according to co-ordinates provided by the US Geological Survey, and unleashed landslides in Himalayan valleys near Mount Everest.

Nelsonians had already rallied to raise funds from the first quake, but say the second one means the need is more pertinent than before.

Nelson photographer and publisher Craig Potton is selling his books and prints of Nepal at his Hardy St gallery and will give all money to Unicef to help with earthquake relief.

He had the sales planned before the second quake, but said this now meant the need was even greater.

"People have to reach out and help them," he said.

Potton has visited Nepal about seven times and is attracted to the landscape, culture and spirituality of it.

He has published two books on the area, Offerings From Nepal in 1995 which was a Montana Book Award finalist, with over 100 full-colour photographs of scenery and the Nepalese people.

In 2008 Potton and writer Lisa Choegyal produced Kathmandu Valley Style, which celebrated art and architecture of Nepal's Kathmandu Valley. Both books were out of print, and Potton is selling them for $30 each.

He is also holding an exhibition at the gallery, based around his book Offerings from Nepal. The work had previously been exhibited in the USA and New Zealand.

Normally his prints were $600 to $700 but he is selling the framed Nepal prints for $200.

He is giving 100 per cent of the sales from the books and prints to Unicef in Nepal.

Potton expects many of the buildings he had photographed in the Kathmandu Valley Style book to have been reduced to rubble.

He said he was "stunned" at the news of the earthquake.

He wanted to sell the books and prints quickly to get the money to Nepal.

"It's just my way, thousands of miles away, to try and do something and do it effectively."

On May 28, Potton will also be holding an evening presentation of his Nepal images. It is a free event though he encouraged attendees to bring along their spare change for the donation bucket, which will be added to the fundraising total.

In light of yesterday's earthquake, he said he wanted to do more to help Nepal within the next year. He said people needed to avoid "compassion fatigue" and keep giving, as there was a massive rebuild needed that would take years.

First Steps Himalaya co-founders Fiona Heiton and Durga Aran also said the need was stronger than ever to help in Nepal. The latest quake and the devastation it caused was "beyond belief", Heiton said.

The Nelson charity was working to provide relief to villages in Nepal.

The villages the charity worked in were "badly hurt" yesterday, after being devastated from the first quake.

"They were on their knees already. The people don't know what to do now. It's absolutely horrible."

Monsoon rain was coming and they feared for people sleeping with no shelter in heavy rain.





Nelson men arrive home safely

Meanwhile, two Nelson men who had gone to Nepal on a "bucket-list trekk" but got caught up in the first earthquake have arrived home to Nelson this week.

Rodger Marwick and Joe Tiller arrived home safely on Monday.

Marwick said he was "pretty devastated" over news of the last earthquake. "The poor buggers can't catch a break."

He hoped people would be inspired to help out by donating to organisations helping Nepal.

"I would really encourage people to get online and have a look and have a read. It really brings it home when you see those small grabs of video, it's horrific."

Marwick said they came home with chest infections, Tiller had developed bronchitis, but were both feeling deeply for the Nepalese' plight.

A week ago they were stuck in Lukla but were helicoptered to Katmandu when Tiller developed the bronchitis.

They were then taken to a hospital in Katmandu, where Marwick saw "lots of bloody beds". Tiller was in a private ward, but Marwick saw the public areas and saw people lying out on the floor.

They then went to Kuala Lumpur where Tiller was treated at another hospital.

Marwick said they were really feeling for the people of Nepal who had no way out, as they had.

"It's lovely to be home, but my thoughts are in Nepal."

They were meant to be there for five weeks, they had just flown to Lukla from Katmandu when the quake struck.

"We were both very much looking forward to going but as soon as the earthquake hit, the idea of continuing on seemed reprehensible, when there's people around you who have lost everything and all you want to do is a silly walk, it makes it all seem a bit small."

Nelson man working to help rebuild

Another Nelson man who was in Nepal when both quakes struck has stayed on to help rebuild a school hall and was trying to get supplies to smaller villages.

Oliver McPherson grew up in Nelson but has been living and working in Bali and Australia for the past decade.

He was with a group buying food and blankets to take to a remote village, he also wanted to get a truck and building supplies to build semi-permanent dwellings.

He said the group had planned to go out to villages today, but with yesterday's earthquake, they would have to wait.

"At the moment people are sleeping in tents and we want to provide shelter against the coming monsoon season."

He said travellers in Nepal had been collecting their own funds and pooling their money for independent projects.

McPherson had just returned from the Annapurna base camp when the earthquake struck.

He wanted to help the "beautiful people of Nepal" he planned to visit remote villages to take materials and photographs.

- Stuff
</text>