<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3077548/Daughter-went-Nepal-attempt-missing-mother-end-search-aftershocks-quake-killed-8-000-cause-avalanches-force-evacuate.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Missing Dawn Habash's daughter may end search after Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
A daughter who journeyed to Nepal to find her missing mother has been forced to leave the area where she was searching because of avalanches triggered by aftershocks from last month's devastating earthquake.

Dawn Habash, 57, of Augusta, Maine, has not been heard from since she went on a hiking trip in the Langtang National Park on April 25, the day of the quake.

Her daughter Yasmine, 31, traveled halfway around the world in hopes that she would find her safe, though her search has been disrupted by tremors causing chaos in the Himalayan country.

Scroll down for video

Missing: Dawn Habash (above with daughter Yasmine) has not been heard from since she went on a hiking trip near Kathmandu the day of a 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal

Tragedy: Dawn, 57, was heading to the Langtang to hike on April 25, one of the villages that was hit hardest by the earthquake (above) that at last count has claimed more than 8,000 lives

Khaled Habash, who helped his sister start a GoFundMe page and travel to Nepal, told thePortland Press Herald that she may come back to the US by the end of the week after being evacuated from the Langtang region.

Yasmine and her boyfriend Reid had traveled to the area where her mother was hiking before her disappearance, an area near the Tibetan border not far from the epicenter of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

A hiker told Yasmine that they spoke to her mother early in the day, and that she said she was heading to the Langtang, one of the villages that was hit hardest by the quake that at last count claimed more than 8,000 lives.

Yasmine, who lives in Alaska and arrived in Nepal on May 5, hoped that due to inclement weather, her mother, a yoga instructor, may have decided against making the trip and turned around.

Otherwise, there might be little hope, as the region has had few reported survivors..

Search: Yasmine and her brother Khaled (above with Dawn), started a GoFundMe page to raise funds to find their mother. Yasmine had to leave the area where her mother was hiking due to aftershocks

Landslides around the Langtang region (pictured in aerial photo, left) have made it difficult for rescue crews to search for survivors and bodies in the area near Tibet that is popular with hikers

Yasmine and her brother kept in constant contact with the embassy and other people in the area in the aftermath of the quake, hoping that someone has seen their mother.

'I don't know how I will leave that area without her,' the daughter said after first arriving in Nepal. 'I don't think I can.'

However, recent aftershocks and avalanches have meant that even all locals have been evacuated from the area Dawn is most likely to be found.

'They did not have luck finding our mother Dawn Habash although giving up was not an option until the forced evacuation,' Khaled said of his sister's heartbreaking setback on Facebook.

Yasmine's departure from the Langtang area may mean the end of the search.

Few survivors have been reported from the region where Yasmine searched for her mother after arriving in the country after the earthquake

Khaled's newborn daughter Zinnia (right, with her mother Jen) was given the middle name Dawn in honor of her grandmother.

'I don’t want to say yes, but that might be the scenario,' Khaled said.

'I don’t know what there is to do,” he said. 'We’re all heartbroken, but she can’t be in a dangerous place.'

Yasmine had previously been with her mother for five weeks on a sabbatical in India before Dawn, who has been to south Asia numerous times, continued on to Nepal to hike.

The mother had been scheduled to leave Nepal on April 29, according to CNN.

Her children have said that the funds were not used for her and her brother to travel or for a search party, she would donate them to Nepal.

The siblings, who welcomed Khaled's baby daughter Zinnia into the world the same day that their mother was supposed to return to the US, had raised more than $25,000 as of Monday evening.
</text>