<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/another-major-earthquake-magnitude-74-has-struck-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Another major earthquake, magnitude 7.4, has struck Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Paris 12/05/2015 - A major earthquake has struck eastern Nepal, magnitude 7.4, two weeks after a devastating earthquake that killed 8000 people. We are in touch with our teams in the field who were carrying out distributions. They are now assessing the damage and scale of destruction caused by this new earthquake.

We are getting ready to deploy a team to Namche Bazaar near the epicentre of the earthquake which has struck the East of the country.

Paris 04/05/2015 – Getting aid to mountainous areas impossible to reach by road

The death toll now stands at over 7000 and 13,200 have been injured according to latest official estimates. The Central and Western Region, including the Kathmandu Valley districts are among the worst affected. Children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities are particularly vulnerable. 2.8 million children have been affected and 940,000 children are in need of urgent aid.

Shelter is still a huge priority especially in hard hit villages that cannot be reached by car, with a very limited availability of helicopters to carry out distributions.

Paris 01/05/2015 - First humanitarian aid distributions in Nepal - 10000 supported by ACTED in Sankhu

Our teams have distributed shelter material to help 10,000 people protect themselves from the rain and the cold in Sankhu, just North of Kathmandu.

In the aftermath of the earthquake, Sankhu had not recieved any humanitarian aid despite its proximity to the capital and the scale of damage and needs in this town located 16 kilometres in the North East of Kathmandu.

Following an evaluation by our emergency team that was deployed immediately after the earthquake, we carried out a vital shelter material distribution for 10,000 people in Sankhu. This is just a first step in supporting people whose lives were devastated by the earthquake. Our teams are pursuing lifesaving aid and food distributions.

Our teams are also operating in Dhading, 41 kilometres North West of Kathmandu and close to the epicentre, and in Sindhupalchowk, one of the least developped districts of Nepal. The two districts are amongst the hardest hit by the earthquake.

Paris 30/04/2015 – Responding to emergency and anticipating reconstruction

According to the latest information, the death toll stands at over 5000 victims, 10,194 people injured and 2.8 million people displaced. 600,000 homes have been damaged. Following our evaluation of needs in Sankhu (16 kilometres from Kathmandu), our teams are mobilized in Dhading (41 kilometres North West of Kathmandu and located right next to the epicentre) and Sindhupalchowk (65 kilometres North East of Kathmandu but about 6 hours by car, and 100 kilometres from the epicentre), one of the least developped districts of Nepal, to evaluate needs and the situation.

The first priority is to provide emergency shelter to people who have had to flee their homes, and at a later stage to provide more solid shelter that will allow for a transition towards the rebuilding of buildings. The second priority is to repair and reconstruct infrastructure through which people can access water, hygiene and sanitation. Finally, even in the midst of emergency, we must begin anticipating an economic revival phase and income generating activities.

Paris 29/04/2015 - ACTED’s emergency teams, mobilized since Sunday, arrived in Kathmandu on Monday and were immediately deployed outside the capital to assess needs in Sankhu, a town located 16 kilometers North-East of Kathmandu. Despite its close proximity to the capital, Sankhu has not received any humanitarian aid since the earthquake. While rescue teams are progressively arriving in Nepal and beginning an emergency response, hundreds of thousands of people living in rural areas find themselves with no support.

Populations need shelter and decent sanitary conditions, whilst weather conditions remain unsettled in the region. People also need drinking water and food as available stocks go down day by day.

Almost 8 million people have been affected by the earthquake, representing one third of the population

"Survivors aren't able to release the bodies of victims stuck in the rubble and are waiting for heavy machinery to clear the collapsed buildings" reports the head of ACTED's emergency mission, Luca Pupulin. "Throughout Sankhu people have found refuge under plastic sheets attached to trees and buildings. Up to one hundred people are sharing the same space in these precarious installations."

These populations located in isolated and difficult to access zones far from international attention which is today focused on Kathmandu, are in urgent need of immediate assistance.

ACTED is on site and ready to begin humanitarian aid operations. To do so, ACTED needs emergency funds. We are renewing our appeal for donations to support our work and to respond to the most pressing needs of the Nepalese people.

Paris 28/04/2015 – 8 million people have been affected by the devastating earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday 25 April. So far the death toll stands at 4,300 people and the number is constantly rising as more information becomes and available.

People are camping in open spaces due to fear of aftershocks and that damaged buildings may collapse. Shelter is the most pressing need with people struggling to find tents and plastic covers to protect themselves from the sun and rain showers during day time and cold air at night.

The weather is very bad with landslides affecting the country and making it very difficult to communicate with and access certain zones.

Access to water, hygiene and sanitation is also a serious issue. The water system has been disrupted and people do not have access to clean water or toilets.

An ACTED emergency team has been deployed and has arrived today in the country. Our teams will start evaluating needs immediately focusing on the most remote and difficult to access areas that have been severely affected by the earthquake. Our response will focus on access to water and sanitation and shelter and will be adapted to specific needs as we gain further information on the situation.

Paris 26/04/2015 - An ACTED emergency team deployed in Nepal this Sunday

A massive earthquake struck Nepal Saturday 25 April 2015, with thousands of victims and over 2,000 deaths. ACTED emergency REACT teams are currently being deployed in the country to assess priority needs and answer the expectations of the victims in Kathmandu, while contributing to the coordination of information among local and international actors engaged in support of the Nepalese.

Our teams, which have been working for several years on disaster risk reduction interventions in the region, as well as at the building up of local capacities in terms of disaster management, are currently being mobilized from India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, with the support of experts deployed from Geneva and Nairobi.

You can support our emergency relief operations to vulnerable populations in Nepal by making a donation by mail or online or on our website: www.acted.org

Thank you for your support and your generosity, in emergency situations, today and tomorrow. It is together, with you by our side, that we can meet the essential needs of affected populations, while preparing post-disaster interventions which are critically important.

Your donations are very valuable to us: thank you for sharing this appeal to your friends, family and networks. We will keep you informed of the continuation of our operations, which would not be possible without your support.
</text>