<url>
http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/lettrained-im-operative-held/article7195797.ece
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
LeT-trained IM operative held
</headline>

<text>
in the net:Irfan Ahmed after his release from Tihar Jail, had fled to West Bengal, and waslater made in-charge of the IM in Nepal.—Photo: Shiv Kumar Pushpakar

more-in

A 49-year-old man, allegedly trained by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and now connected to the Indian Mujahideen (IM), has been arrested by the Delhi Police Special Cell in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district. He had jumped parole in 2001.

Identified as Irfan Ahmed, the accused, after his release from Delhi’s Tihar Jail, had fled to West Bengal, and was later made in-charge of the IM in Nepal, the police claimed.

Lodged at a prison in Nepal, he is understood to have made his way back to India after taking advantage of the chaos that gripped Nepal following a massive earthquake recently. He had first figured on the radar of security agencies as the man who planted bombs in two Rajdhani trains - Delhi-Howrah and Howrah-Delhi - passing through Kanpur in December 1993.

Irfan was also arrested by the Nepal Police in 2010 for trying to obtain Nepal citizenship on fake documents. After trial, he was sentenced to five years in jail, but his real identity was not revealed by the Nepal authorities.

“Irfan was lodged in Sindhupalchok Jail in Nepal. His sentence was to end in July 2015, but the recent earthquake in Nepal gave him another chance to escape when the jail walls collapsed,” said Sanjeev Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell).

Irfan returned to Bahraich to avoid arrest by the Nepal Police, but was apprehended by the Delhi Police on May 7 .

Irfan was initially arrested by the Delhi Police in Janaury 1994 and was handed over to the CBI, which was investigating the train bombings.

He was convicted in 1999 in the case registered by the Delhi Police, while the trial of the CBI cases was pending. In 2001, Irfan got parole to attend his brother’s marriage at Bahraich. He fled on being released.

While Irfan was lodged in Tihar Jail, he had become a close friend of Aasif Reza Khan, who was imprisoned in another TADA case.

“The association with Aasif between 1996 and 1999 proved to be the beginning of the second innings in Irfan’s terrorist life,” Mr. Yadav said.

Aasif had told Irfan that it was time to initiate a new jihad in India and Irfan committed his allegiance to Aasif, who had sowed the seeds of Indian Mujahideen from within the confines of Tihar Jail. In June 2001, Irfan procured a parole for four days to attend his younger brother’s wedding. However, instead of surrendering before the jail authorities after the expiry of parole, Irfan went to Kolkata and met Aasif.

Aasif told him that there was no question of going back to jail and that Irfan would have to look after the work of their new tanzeem in Nepal.

Irfan’s Kathmandu base was treated as the transit point for infiltration of terrorists sent from Pakistan. Also, new Indian recruits were sent to Pakistan for training in handling of arms and ammunition, and fabrication of improvised explosive devices arranged under the patronage of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence.
</text>