<url>
http://www.newswire.ca/en/story/1535205/need-a-source-plan-staff-in-nepal-and-canada-available-to-speak-on-the-latest-mega-earthquake-to-hit-already-devastated-country
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
NEED A SOURCE: Plan staff in Nepal and Canada available to speak on the latest mega earthquake to hit already devastated country
</headline>

<text>
Facebook Twitter Pinterest A major earthquake has struck eastern Nepal, two weeks after more than 8,000 people were killed in a devastating quake. The latest earthquake hit near the town of Namche Bazar, near Mount Everest. The US Geological ...

× A major earthquake has struck eastern Nepal, two weeks after more than 8,000 people were killed in a devastating quake. The latest earthquake hit near the town of Namche Bazar, near Mount Everest. The US Geological Survey said it had a magnitude of 7.3. An earthquake on 25 April, centred in western Nepal, had a magnitude of 7.8. The latest tremor was felt as far away as the Indian capital Delhi, as well as Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. (CNW Group/Plan Canada)



Plan International responding to Nepal earthquake

Needs of children among immediate priorities for response

TORONTO, May 12, 2015 /CNW/ - Following the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25, Nepal has been hit by another severe earthquake, reportedly of 7.4 magnitude.

Plan International already has an extensive presence in the country, with emergency response teams working around the clock to deliver essential aid, including in some of the hardest-to-reach areas. Currently, Plan teams are spread out across the Kathmandu valley and several districts in the affected areas – distributing emergency relief items to families who have lost their homes and prioritizing the needs of children, who are most vulnerable in disasters.

"The aftershocks continue to happen, people have flooded the streets in Kathmandu. Right now, we are setting out operations outside, waiting for the aftershocks to subside," said Mike Bruce, Plan's Regional Communications Manager, who is in Kathmandu.

Child protection, emergency relief and psychosocial support for children and affected communities has never been more critical.

"An earthquake like today only resurfaces panic and fear amongst children and affected communities. Since the original earthquake struck, children have been living in a constant state of worry and stress, and a second earthquake of this magnitude will only worsen the problem and cause further devastation," said Mattias Bryneson, Plan Nepal Country Director.

Heavy rains falling ahead of the coming monsoon season are compounding the suffering of thousands of people left homeless by the first and now this second earthquake.

Canadians have been extremely generous in the aftermath of the April 25th earthquake, but continued support is now more critical than ever. Canadians are urged to donate towards life-saving humanitarian assistance to the people of Nepal. With the Canadian government matching all donations, contributions will go even further.

Available for interviews and comment on the situation on the ground following the latest earthquake in Nepal:

In Nepal:

Mike Bruce , Regional Communications Manager, Plan International

, Regional Communications Manager, Plan International Adam Cathro , Media Relations Manager, Plan International

In Canada:

Rosemary McCarney , President & CEO, Plan Canada

, President & CEO, Plan Canada Dr. Tanjina Mirza , Vice-President, International Programs, Plan Canada

For more information on Plan's response to the earthquake in Nepal, please visit plancanada.ca

About Plan and the Because I am a Girl initiative

Founded in 1937, Plan is one of the world's oldest and largest international development agencies, working in partnership with millions of people around the world to end global poverty. Not for profit, independent and inclusive of all faiths and cultures, Plan has only one agenda: to improve the lives of children. Because I am a Girl is Plan's global initiative to end gender inequality, promote girls' rights and lift millions of girls – and everyone around them – out of poverty. Visit plancanada.ca and becauseiamagirl.ca for more information.

About the Humanitarian Coalition

Plan Canada is a proud member of the Humanitarian Coalition, Canada's only joint appeal mechanism for humanitarian assistance. It is comprised of CARE Canada, Oxfam Canada, Oxfam-Québec, Plan Canada and Save the Children Canada. With a combined presence in more than 120 countries, we bring together Canada's leading aid agencies to finance relief efforts in times of international humanitarian crises. We work together to eliminate unnecessary competition, reduce the duplication of fundraising costs, and inform the public on humanitarian needs. For more information, visit together.ca

Find out more

To receive news about Plan Canada, sign up for our media mailing list at plancanada.ca/media

SOURCE Plan Canada

Image with caption: "A major earthquake has struck eastern Nepal, two weeks after more than 8,000 people were killed in a devastating quake. The latest earthquake hit near the town of Namche Bazar, near Mount Everest. The US Geological Survey said it had a magnitude of 7.3. An earthquake on 25 April, centred in western Nepal, had a magnitude of 7.8. The latest tremor was felt as far away as the Indian capital Delhi, as well as Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. (CNW Group/Plan Canada)". Image available at: http://photos.newswire.ca/images/download/20150512_C8414_PHOTO_EN_16539.jpg





For further information: Media contacts: Dena Allen, Senior Media and Public Relations Manager, Plan Canada, T: 416.920.1654 x326 | C: 416.723.6340 | dallen@plancanada.ca; Abigail Brown, Senior Media and Public Relations Manager, Plan Canada, T: (416) 920-1654 ext. 277 | C: (647) 971-3764 | abrown@plancanada.ca
</text>