<url>
http://www.afternoonvoice.com/another-major-earthquake-jolts-nepal-26-killed-over-150-injured.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Another major earthquake jolts Nepal, 26 killed, over 150 injured
</headline>

<text>
A powerful earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale hit Nepal on Tuesday at around 12.35 pm, sending strong tremors across major swathes of North India, including Delhi, at about 12.40 pm.

At least seven people were killed and over 150 were injured due to the massive earthquake, said Nepal Police. Nepal Police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam as saying that four people were killed in Chautara town in Sindhupalchowk district and three others died in capital Kathmandu.

He said that the number of deaths is likely to go up as they await news from other areas.

The epicentre of the strong earthquake that shook Nepal was close to Mount Everest. The epicentre was 68 km from Namche Bazar, northeast of Kathmandu. Reports further said that 7 quakes were reported in quick successions in Nepal between 12:35 pm to 2 pm.

Namche Bazaar is the starting point for those who want to climb Mount Everest. The distance between Namche Bazaar and Mount Everest is about 30 km.

Mount Everest is the world’s highest peak at 8,848 metres. Reports reaching here said that there was considerable panic in Namche Bazar, especially after the April 25 earthquake. Four people have reportedly died after a building collapsed in Chautara in Nepal. Some high-rise buildings have also suffered serious damages due to the quakes. People in the capital Kathmandu were seen running out of their houses.

Kathmandu airport was initially evacuated as a precautionary measure, however, it later resumed its normal business. Nepal’s Foreign Minister Mahendra Pandey said that telephone lines have gone dead but efforts were on to restore telecommunication services across the country. Most of the people are out on the streets. Nepal Cabinet will meet soon for damage assessment, he added.

Three major landslides were reported in Nepal’s Sindhupalchowk region where at least 12 people were injured.

7.4 magnitude quake jolts Nepal: USGS

The US Geological Survey (USGS) said that the quake that hit Nepal measured 7.4 on the Richter scale and struck at around 12:35 pm, some 83 kilometres east of Kathmandu at a depth of 18.5 kilometres.

Strong tremors were also felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India. The quake also jolted Afghanistan, China and Indonesia.
</text>