<url>
http://www.rochesterhomepage.net/story/d/story/panic-as-deadly-aftershock-hits-nepal/32749/S5C3oITK40e-dqmewLfxZQ
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Panic as deadly aftershock hits Nepal
</headline>

<text>
- (CBS News)- A large earthquake rattled Nepal Tuesday -- an aftershock from the devastating April 25 quake that left more than 8,000 people dead in the Himalayan nation.



Tuesday's temblor had a magnitude of 7.3, according to the U.S. Geological Survey -- smaller than the 7.8 quake weeks earlier, but powerful enough to cause significant damage send still-shaky Nepalese running out of buildings.



Nepal's Home Ministry said at least 42 people were killed by the earthquake. Almost 1,000 more were injured. The full extent of the damage was yet to be assessed as officials could not make contact with people near the epicenter.



At least two people were also killed by the quake in India, according to local officials.



The International Organization for Migration confirmed four deaths and toppled buildings from the aftershock, which struck at 3:05 a.m. Eastern, in the town of Chautara, about 25 miles east of the capital.



The earthquake hit between Kathmandu and Mount Everest and was shallow, with the USGS estimating a depth of only about 10 miles. About 20 people were killed on Mount Everest in the April disaster, which saw vast avalanches of snow and rock careen down the world's highest mountain and smash into base camp, which was full of climbers from around the world.



There is still a small army of international aid workers in Nepal, and helicopters were dispatched almost immediately to the remote area around the epicenter of Tuesday's quake.



CBS News correspondent Seth Doane says it is difficult to get aid out to those who need it as the infrastructure in Nepal -- already weak before the April 25 quake hit -- is so inadequate. People in the outlying areas of the country were forced to wait for days for helicopters to deliver aid supplies in the wake of the temblor three weeks ago.



An official at the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu told CBS News that it had "no reports of injuries or fatalities of American citizens" but was still working to confirm the location of all those in the country.



The USAID Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) currently positioned in Nepal was assessing the situation. Three American helicopters were taking 20 USAID DART members and 18 other urban search and rescue personnel to conduct initial assessments in Charikot, Nepal, near the epicenter.



The embassy official told CBS News that the approximately 300 U.S. military personnel in Nepal helping with relief efforts following the April 25 quake were working as needed in coordination with Nepalese authorities to respond to the aftershocks.



The USGS said the epicenter appeared to be 47 miles east of Kathmandu. CBS News' Sanjay Jha said he could feel the earth shake in New Delhi, India, some 700 miles away.



Olle Castel, of the British children's aid group Plan UK, has been in Kathmandu working on the response to the April 25 quake. He told Sky News Tuesday the aftershock lasted between 20 and 30 seconds, and his main concern was for the people near the epicenter, given the shallowness of the temblor.



The April 25 quake struck to the west of Kathmandu, near the town of Ghorka.



Columbia Journalism student Shiwani Neupane was with her parents on the 6th floor of a building in Kathmandu when Tuesday's quake struck. She told CBS News by phone that the building shook violently when it happend.



She said people started praying and screaming, "not again!" as the building shook. When it stopped, they all rushed outside and joined hundreds of other people in the street.



Neupane said it was a scene of chaos at street level -- possibly more so even than the April 25 quake, because it came on a weekday and the city was crowded with workers.


</text>