<url>
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/7-3-quake-hits-nepal-4-dead-in-chautara-2-in-india-govt-puts-ndrf-iaf-on-standby/articleshow/47245283.cms
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
7.3 magnitude quake hits Nepal: 42 killed, Modi govt puts NDRF & IAF on standby
</headline>

<text>
#NepalEarthquake2 Second MI-17 of #IAF has got airborne for #Lamabagar from #Kathmandu 4 aerial recce and casualty evacuation, if required.

— Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) May 12, 2015

#NepalEarthquake2 Casualties being moved from village #Mrigu to #Kathmandu by # IAF 's MI-17 V5 helicopter. pic.twitter.com/kmdxzY4QVg

— Sitanshu Kar (@SpokespersonMoD) May 12, 2015

KATHMANDU: At least 42 people were killed in the 7.3 magnitude earthquake that struck Nepal on Tuesday, according to a bulletin from the country's disaster agency.A further 335 were also injured in the quake, Nepal's national emergency operation centre said on Twitter.The worst hit was Chautara in Sindhupalchowk district, north of Kathmandu, where several buildings collapsed, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration said.Nepal's Home Ministry has raised the death toll from the latest quake to at least 36, while saying another 1,117 people had been injured."The latest earthquake has left us shaken. I am still trembling," said the official, Diwakar Koirala.The quake took its toll in India too. Two people were reported killed in a wall collapse in Patna. Residents in Siliguri said chunks of concrete fell off one or two buildings. The Centre has put NDRF teams on alert in Ghaziabad, Guwahati, Patna, Kolkata and Bhatinda. Minutes after the quake, PM Narendra Modi took stock of the situation and home minister Rajnath Singh spoke to the Indian envoy in Nepal."Buildings down in Chautara ...Bodies being brought out of buildings," the International Organization of Migration, a United Nations agency, said on its Twitter feed.Three major landslides were reported in Sindhupalchowk district, whose capital Chautara, with at least 12 people hurt, a district official said.Sindhupalchowk was the region that suffered the most reported deaths in a 7.8 magnitude earthquake that devastated Nepal on April 25. The epicentre of Tuesday's 7.4 quake was in a remote conservation area between Kathmandu and Mount Everest.A major earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale, struck Nepal and parts of North India on Tuesday According to the IMD , the epicentre of the quake was in Nepal.Two earthquakes struck India with epicentres in Nepal and Afghanistan, said the Ministry of Home Affairs. A serious of aftershocks were felt after the earthquake. Another 5.6-magnitude aftershock hit minutes later in Nepal, according to the USGS.The latest quake hit at a depth of 15.0 kilometres, according to US Geological Survey. It had earlier measured the quake at 7.3. According to USGS, the quake struck 68 km west of the town of Namche Bazar , close to Mount Everest.The strong earthquake shook Nepal, sending people in the capital Kathmandu rushing out on to the streets weeks, eyewitnesses said."This is a really big one," said Prakash Shilpakar, the owner of a handicrafts shop in Kathmandu who was trying to call his parents in the town of Bhaktapur, devastated in the April 25 quake.There were no immediate reports of damage to buildings. Shopkeepers closed their shops.The tremors in Kathmandu lasted close to a minute according to an AFP correspondent in the city, with the ground swaying. Sirens could be heard soon afterwards although there were no immediate reports of casualties.Tremeors were felt across parts of North and East India, including the National Capital Region (NCR) of Delhi. The quake had its impact in several cities in Bihar, West Bengal and UP and tremors were felt across vast stretches of east and northeast India. It was also felt in China.The quake comes a few weeks after a major earthquake of 7.9 left Nepal in ruins. The April 25 quake has so far claimed nearly 8,000 lives and injured close to 16,400. Around eight million people have been displaced.Three tremors had jolted Nepal on May 10, triggering panic among the people already battered by the devastating earthquake and over 150 aftershocks. A 4.2-magnitude tremor was recorded at 1.50 AM with its epicentre at Sindhupalchowk district, 100 km east of Kathmandu, one of the worst-affected districts.Another 4-magnitude tremor was recorded at 2.44 AM with epicentre at Udaypur district.The third tremor was of 4.4-magnitude which struck at 6.34 AM with epicentre at Sindhupalchowk/Tibet, according to the National Seismological Centre, Kathmandu.
</text>