<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/race-get-relief-supplies-through-area-hit-new-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Race to get relief supplies through to area hit by new Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Christian Aid emergency workers in Nepal are trying with partner organisations to get relief through this morning to the area worst hit by today’s earthquake.

The earthquake struck at about 13:00 local time. The US Geological Survey said it measured 7.4 on the Richter scale, compared to the April 26 earthquake, which had a magnitude of 7.8.

The epicentre of today’s earthquake was the town of Namche Bazaar in eastern Nepal, the last major settlement before Everest basecamp.

Christian Aid emergency programme officer Yeeshu Shukla, already in Nepal to help co-ordinate relief efforts after the first earthquake, was in the Sindhupalchowk region some 40 miles away when the building he was in began shaking.

“For a moment, I felt that the building I was in would come down. We rushed out. Everyone was out on the street, some of them panicking, with mothers screaming, looking for their children. There were four or five severe after-shocks and some buildings collapsed.

“Travelling later towards Kathmandu the roads were lined with people too scared to re-enter buildings, with heaps of rubble where some had structures had collapsed.

“Now the race is to get relief through to the worst hit areas – clothing and other essentials. There is a shortage of drivers, however, many of whom have returned to their homes to be with their families.”

Nick Guttmann, Christian Aid’s Head of Humanitarian had just arrived in the country to monitor the progress of Christian Aid’s initial relief efforts.

He was visiting a partner agency in Kathmandu before visiting a distribution point when a slight tremor ran through the building. Everyone stood up, and then everything began moving.

“Outside, the ground looked like it was rippling,” he said. “We didn’t know where to go and stayed under some corrugated iron.”

An hour after the earthquake, he said, “people were walking round the streets, not knowing what to do, I heard one woman ask ‘What is happening to Nepal’.”

Since the first earthquake struck, Christian Aid has worked through partner organisations in Nepal distributing blankets, tarpaulins, food, water purification equipment and water purification tablets to communities struggling to rebuild their lives.

The Disasters Emergency Committee, of which Christian Aid is a member, yesterday announced its appeal for Nepal earthquake victims had raised more than £50m. At the same time, Christian Aid’s own appeal for Nepal has raised more than £1.2million.

If you would like further information please contact Andrew Hogg on 0207 523 2058 or 24 hour duty phone duty phone – 07850 242950

Notes to Editors:
</text>