<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/nepal-pwj-emergency-response-update
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal: PWJ Emergency Response Update
</headline>

<text>
SAR Team

Peace Winds Japan’s Search and Rescue (SAR) team with two rescue dogs started its operation in Kathmandu from April 27 in collaboration with Asia Pacific Alliance for Disaster Management (A-PAD) where the team worked in total five areas in Kathmandu valley as well as areas in the mountain side of Sindhupalchowk district. Because much of the severely affected areas are situated in the high mountains, Peace Winds Japan chartered a helicopter to help aid reach earthquake survivors faster. The rescue operation concluded on 2nd May.

Emergency Relief Team

On May 2, 2015 PWJ and A-PAD’s emergency relief team finished the first distribution of the food package to 200 households in Kubinde village, Sindhupalchowk District, which is one of the worst affected area. The emergency food package provides food for an average family size of six for one month and contains lentils, rice, oil, and salt. We completed distribution of total 700 emergency relief packages in Kubhinde village.

Bagawa lives in a Kubhinde village with her daughter and husband. As she was receiving emergency relief items from PWJ, she told her experience. “When the first earthquake happened I was working in the field. It was such a big earthquake I had ever felt. I immediately went to my house and found my house was turned into large debris. Not just my house, I lost almost everything I owned inside the house. I also lost my grandmother.” “I’m grateful that PWJ provided us with rice and dal, they are essential food items in our culture and we eat them every day. Now I can feed my daughter some nutritious food.” Bagawa said.

Rajendra Sharma is a Program Coordinator for Janahit Gramin Sewa Samittee, which is a village base Community Based Organization (CBO) which assisted with PWJ’s emergency relief distribution process. “Though I lost my house and living under the tarpaulin made shelter now, I feel it is my duty to support my village people. This village is made of tight communities and we will rebuild. We are interested in learning how to build stronger houses.” said Rajendra. His wife is a teacher at Kubhinde village primary school, “as a teacher, I would like to know how to protect my students and how to teach students what to do in case of next earthquake. ”

PWJ continues to visit various disaster affected areas and interact directly with the villagers to assess real local needs. On 8th May, PWJ team visited a village called Deupur in Kavre district. The village is located on top of the hill where 300 families lived, growing vegetables for their livelihood. “There are only two houses that are still standing and safe to live in, about 2,000 villagers had been displaced and many living just under the tarp without any safe place to sleep.”

“The earthquake destroyed my house. I was outside playing but my mother and my 8 months old little brother were inside the house. I am grateful they escaped from the collapsing house and survived.” said Alisa (11). They are living in a small shack next to their collapsed house. “My father is working outside Nepal and cannot come back soon. I am not sure what will happen to our future.”

PWJ sees the importance to provide safe shelter is the number one issue for the most affected areas. We are preparing for the recovery programme as the monsoon season will soon approach Nepal and the rain will cause more concerns for their safety.

Please support PWJ’s ongoing disaster relief activities in Nepal.

Donate today.(Paypal)

How to Donate http://peace-winds.org/en/donate.html
</text>