<url>
http://www.enca.com/world/second-nepal-quake-terrifies-local-people
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Second Nepal quake terrifies local people
</headline>

<text>
Dust rises from collapsed buildings in Harishhidi, Lalitpur, in the southern part of the Kathmandu valley in Nepal. A 7.4 magnitude earthquake struck the country on Tuesday 12 May 2015. Photo: Courtesy Nikun Shrestha

Johannesburg, 12 May 2015 - Casualties announced so far are 29 dead and over 1,000 injured in the latest quake to hit Nepal.

JOHANNESBURG – Reports from Kathmandu are that the 7.4 magnitude earthquake which struck Nepal on Tuesday morning has terrified local people.

The earthquake’s epicentre is reportedly close to the Everest base camp.

Another big earthquake hit #Nepal of 7.4 magnitude. People run outside of their houses and shops in search of safer place in #Birgunj. Photo by @aashusarraf #nepal #nepalearthquake #nepalphotoproject A photo posted by NepalPhotoProject (@nepalphotoproject) on May 12, 2015 at 3:13am PDT

The chief executive officer of Nepal11 Radio, Patrick Subedi told eNCA.com that 10 people have been reported dead and many others are trapped under rubble.

“People are panicking. It’s not as big as the last one but since a lot of houses and buildings are cracked and tilted, it can be dangerous for people around those areas.”

Subedi says the radio station is advising people to stay outside and not to overuse the phone lines.

After the quake Nepali volunteer Nikun Shrestha updated his Facebook status with the words, “Be Strong” and posted a picture of dust in the air around Harisiddhi, an area in the southern part of the Kathmandu valley.

Shrestha told eNCA.com that he would provide an update later as he was currently helping people affected by the most recent quake.

7.1 A photo posted by Nikun Shrestha (@nikunshrestha) on May 12, 2015 at 12:26am PDT

Another volunteer Gyanu Raj Maharjan told eNCA.com that he was safe and staying outside for now.

Last week the Gift of the Givers were in Nepal on a humanitarian relief mission with a team of almost 80 rescue workers and doctors.

South African doctors Sarita Pandey-Bhattarai and her sister Samita, who were born in Nepal, were part of the mission.

Sarita says she has contacted her family back home and they are safe.

“I've spoken to my in-laws and friends they are all okay. Terrified, but okay. I am happy to be back but worried about the family that were so terrified when we were there... and then they had to go through another quake so soon,” she said.

They stayed on for a few days to visit family.

Samita told eNCA.com: “I wish we had stayed a bit longer so we could have assisted in some way. Not sure how effective we would have been but it would have been better than sitting here wondering if maybe we could have done more,” she said.

Gift of the Givers has issued a call for donations on their Facebook page: “In the wake of this second large earthquake, our greatest contribution as South Africans to the people in Nepal will be cash to purchase food, tents and medical supplies to ensure some kind of physical support for thousands who will be homeless through destroyed homes or through fear of aftershocks.

“With the monsoon rains already on the way this is the least we can do for the people of Nepal. Trauma counselling and housing reconstruction are future options.”

The organisation has asked for donations to made to the following account:

Contributions to: Gift of the Givers

Standard Bank, Pietermaritzburg, account number 052278611, branch code 057525.

Please fax or e-mail deposit slip to 0800786911 with full contact details for acknowledgement purposes.

eNCA
</text>