<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150513/jsp/bihar/story_19698.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Love neighbours and mothers
</headline>

<text>
Students and teachers of Cimage College came forward to help the April 25 quake victims in Nepal, last Thursday. Along with the institution's administrative officials, they donated money and essentials for the victims. The college sent three trucks of relief material to Nepal. "We have collected Rs 2 lakh. Besides, we are sending necessary medicines and food. We have come to know that there is crisis of drinking water there. We are sending chlorine tablets so that water could be treated for drinking. We are also sending 20,000 face masks and around 550 quilts for the quake-hit victims," said Cimage College chairman Basant Agrawal. He added that the college took special note of the children in Nepal. "We are sending Horlicks, glucose, milk powder and chocolates for the children," he said. Samiksha Gupta, a student of Cimage College, said: "I really appreciate this initiative of sending relief material to Nepal. We should do whatever we can for the affected people" Cimage College officials flag off vehicles carrying relief material for the Nepal earthquake victims. Picture by Ashok Admission alert The Community College of Patna Women's College, affiliated to Aryabhatta Knowledge University, would give out admission forms from May 15 till June 4 at the institution counter. Students can apply for postgraduate diplomas in arts, science and commerce faculties. Patna Women's College principal Sister Marie Jessie said: "The Community College is an alternative system of education, which aims for the empowerment of the underprivileged - the urban, rural, tribal poor and women - through appropriate skill development programmes, leading to gainful employment in collaboration with local industries and the community." She added: "The diploma courses in healthcare and retail at the Community College has a goal to prepare students for productive careers in response to the needs of the community. Once the course is over, students will be placed in industrial, commercial and service organisations in their areas." Sneha Jose, an applicant, said: "There is a lot of scope in the health sector and I want to pursue a career in nutrition. I am looking forward to applying for this course as the placement cell is good." students check the notice board for Community College details at Patna Women’s College. Picture by Ashok Research fellow Shikha Agarwal, a research scholar from the Central University of South Bihar, has been selected for senior research fellowship at the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Agarwal, who is currently pursuing a PhD in the central university's computer science department, said the fellowship had been awarded based on her work on Big data high dimensionality reduction/feature selection. The university's public relations officer, Mohammad Mudassir Alam, said every year the council awards fellowships to a certain number of researchers and Agarwal is one among them this year. He added that each year, online applications are invited for the fellowship and the selection is made on the basis of an interview where a committee of experts evaluate the candidate's academic records and published works. Initially, the tenure of the fellowship is two years. It may be extended to a third year based on the recommendation of a three-member expert committee. A fellow is entitled to a stipend of Rs 28,000 a month and an annual contingent grant of Rs 20,000 per fellow is provided to the institution. Research scholar Shikha Agarwal Salute to moms Students of St Xavier's College and St Xavier's College of Management and Technology celebrated Mother's Day on the college premises last Saturday. A special prayer service was held in honour of the mothers in the faculty and administration. After a short introduction, they received blessings from Mother Earth in the form of a tika, symbolising the divyachakshu or the third eye of intuition. Inaugural lamps were lit and a Chinese gong was rung. Faculty members Anurag and Rakesh read special prayers for mothers. PowerPoint presentations Beautiful motherhood and A tribute to mothers were shown to the students. Mariam, a faculty member, said: "I am thrilled. This is the first time that I have been honoured as a Mother." Another teacher, Kalpana Kumari, said: "The role of a mother is probably the most important for a woman. I am proud to be a mother." Mala Upadhayay, who is also a part of the faculty, said: "I was moved to tears. Motherhood requires more knowledge than any other human affair. My child teaches me patience and much more." Want to report some event in your college? Tell [email protected]
</text>