<url>
http://www.wfsb.com/story/28899821/connecticut-residents-affected-by-nepal-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Connecticut residents affected by Nepal earthquake - WFSB 3 Connecticut
</headline>

<text>
Nepal may be thousands of miles away from Connecticut, but people in the state are affected by the earthquake that killed almost 2,000 people.

Michael Biscotti from Newington is known to many people in the town as a retired teacher who loves to travel. His latest trips took him to Nepal, which has been struck by tragedy.

When the horrific images on the earthquake reached Ciro Simonetti's home, he immediately thought of his friend and neighbor.

Biscotti's daughter told his neighbors on Saturday night that she got an email from her father saying that he is doing well. He is in the city of Pokhara with food and water, but there it is hard to communicate at this time.

"He's been part of my family since we've lived here for 15 years," Simonetti said of Biscotti.

Simonetti told Eyewitness News that Biscotti left for a monthlong trip to Nepal a couple of weeks ago.

"He was really excited. I saw him the day before he left. He told me we all look out for each other. He told me to keep an eye out on his house, that he was going to Nepal on a once-in-a-lifetime trip, and he was really excited about it," Simonetti said.

The earthquake knocked down communication lines so it's very difficult to contact anyone in Nepal right now.

Simonetti hasn't been in touch with his friend since the disaster but said he's staying positive.

"I'm looking forward to him coming back and him telling me the whole story about his trip and about everything that happened down there," Simonetti said.

While neighbors worry about their friend, a family in West Hartford is mourning tonight.

"This is my grandmother who recently died in this earthquake," said Suraj Pandey of West Hartford.

Pandey told Eyewitness News that his grandmother in Nepal couldn't escape the quake.

"The whole family started running, but my grandmother decided to go into the other room and hide under the bed. But my grandmother is 84 years old, so I guess she didn't make it in time," Pandey said.

Pandey's father, Surendra, was wearing traditional mourning clothes on Saturday and won't leave his home for 13 days in honor of his mother's death. Pandey hopes at least the tragedy will inspire folks to lend a hand.

"They need some help right now," Pandey said.

Eyewitness News has reached out to the U.S. Embassy in Nepal to see if they have had contact with Biscotti, but there was no response on Saturday evening.

Copyright 2015 WFSB (Meredith Corporation). All rights reserved.
</text>