<url>
http://www.newindianexpress.com/states/karnataka/Cheaper-Drugs-at-Government-Hospitals-in-30-District-HQs/2015/05/12/article2809827.ece
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Cheaper Drugs at Government Hospitals in 30 District HQs
</headline>

<text>
BENGALURU:State government hospitals in 176 taluks and 30 district headquarters will soon have generic drug stores where people from all economic strata can buy medicines cheaply.

The government has signed a memorandum with Hindustan Lifecare Ltd (HLL) for setting up such drug stores.

Inaugurating the first-of-its kind store under the Health Department at the KC General Hospital here on Monday, Minister for Health and Family Welfare U T Khader said patients from the lower economic classes can buy medicines at a discount of around 60 to 80 per cent from this store.

As many as 1,000 types of generic drugs will be available in these stores. Speaking about the problems that the initiative faced when it was first introduced at a medical college hospital, Khader said, “The new model has been designed keeping in mind the shortcomings that existed in the previous ones.”

Khader also said if patients are suspicious of the quality of the drug, they can have it tested. “Only drugs manufactured by noted multi-national companies will be sold here. This will ensure quality is maintained,” he added.

The generic drug store, to be called ‘Janasanjeevini,’ will be open from June. “We are working out the modalities to have it run on a 24-hour basis,” he said.

With the hospital getting a new kitchen block, the old one will now have a diagnostic unit set up there. The hospital, along with the government, will soon set up CT Scan and MRI facilities there.

The government will collaborate with HLL for setting up diagnostic centres across the state. Khader said, “Facility will be provided by taking a nominal fee compared to private diagnostic centres.”

“We are also contemplating to bring in a software which will display the generic name of a particular drug when the brand name is entered. Besides, if possible, we will also try to have addresses of generic drug stores put up in front of hospitals and clinics in the city,” Khader said.

Khader also inspected the new OPD block of the building. He directed the officials to ensure that medicines were in stock after a patient at the hospital complained that most medicines were unavailable. On seeing a long queue at the OPD registration counter, he said that place must be barricaded.

Minutes before the minister arrived at the venue, a quick clean-up drive was launched. Garbage was cleared and bleaching power was sprinkled in almost every corner of the premises.

Doctors Felicitated on Return From Nepal

The team of 13 doctors from the state, who went to Nepal and returned to the city recently, were felicitated on Monday.

Dr Srinivas, chief supervisor, Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society, said, “It was a first-of-its-kind experience for many of us. There were tremors of a magnitude of 4.5 on the day we landed there,” he said.

The team landed there nearly 48 hours after the quake, and came across several harrowing cases. “Some people had lost their hands and a few others had lost their legs. They had lost all their family members too, making it worse for them,” Dr Srinivas said.
</text>