<url>
http://www.ross-shirejournal.co.uk/News/Humbling-experience-for-Evanton-volunteer-in-earthquake-hit-Nepal-06052016.htm
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Humbling experience for Evanton volunteer in earthquake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Xanthe Davies is pictured with Badri, a man whose home was completely destroyed in last year’s earthquakes in Nepal. Living in a very poor remote community in the Nuwakot region, he received no aid for a year. The volunteers cleared the rubble of his form

A HEARTFELT plea for aid has come from an Evanton woman on behalf of earthquake victims in some of the remotest areas of Nepal – whose shattered lives she is helping to rebuild.

Xanthe Davies (26), a former pupil of Alness Academy, left home to travel 18 months ago, joining up with the All Hands Volunteers organisation last year on a project in the Philippines.

Xanthe says this left her with a deep desire to carry on working with the aid group, and she travelled to Nepal following the April 2015 earthquake which killed more than 8,000 people and injured more than 21,000.

In addition, hundreds of thousands of people were made homeless, with entire villages flattened across many districts of the country.

Xanthe has been living and volunteering in Nepal since February this year working with a team to help families without adequate shelter clear the rubble from the sites where their homes once stood.

She described the plight of many Nepalese.

Said Xanthe: “Many more have had their livelihood put at risk due to destruction of crops, livestock and vital infrastructure and continue to live without clean water and sanitation.

“Until this month I was part of a team in where All Hands have been demolishing unsafe buildings and removing rubble and debris from homeowners’ property to allow them to rebuild.

“I was part of the recently completed Hamro Ramro Ghar (Home Sweet Home) project where we built 50 homes and household toilets for families in Bansbari, a collection of remote villages in the foothills of the Himalayas.”

Xanthe went on to explain her admiration for the people of Nepal.

She said: “We cooked our food over a fire as the locals do and used buckets of cold water to wash at the end of the hot, dusty days.

“This simple way of life led to an appreciation of how the already tough lives of these incredibly resilient people became so much more difficult with the earthquake.

“Resulting landslides blocked roads and disrupted goods supplies to many rural areas. Although they do not have much to give, the people here have opened up their homes and also their hearts to us.

“Language barriers are broken down and beneficiaries show their gratitude for the work we are doing with lunch each day.

“The connection made between volunteers and locals here is very special, from the children who sneakily take selfies on our phones and the father who helps build rock walls all day to the mother who will shovel dirt with her baby on her back and the grandmother who spends hours chatting, laughing and dancing with us – each has a place in my heart.”

She also described the vital need for aid.

Said Xanthe: “Some may ask why people here aren’t clearing their own destroyed homes or building new ones and question why families still require our assistance.

“Firstly, the communities we are helping are very poor. Every day spent trying to work on their home is a day they are unable to earn money to support their family.

“Materials, tools and skilled labour are expensive and a lot of people will likely have to wait years to have enough money to begin rebuilding. Unfortunately, very little financial aid pledged by the Nepali government has reached those who need it most. People here simply do not have the manpower and required the tools which the All Hands organisation has.”

She added: “These piles of rubble symbolise trauma and loss for many. To tear down the remains of your own home after such a disaster is too emotional for many to bear. It saddens me that a year on from the disaster families are still living in inadequate tin shelters and, with monsoon season approaching, life is only going to become more difficult.

“Nepal needs our help now more than ever.”

Xanthe points out that All Hands Volunteers founder David Campbell has pledged to match any donations made to project Nepal up until May 12.

She added: “I would be incredibly grateful to anyone willing to spare a few pounds to donate to my fundraising page at give.hands.org/xantheinnepal.”

More information about the current project can be found at hands.org/nepal
</text>