<url>
http://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/city-reaches-out-to-nepal/article7194993.ece
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
City reaches out to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
It’s been two weeks since Nepal was devastated by a massive earthquake that left several Indian cities rattled as well. Though it is no longer on the headlines or on people’s minds, it is a fact that Nepal still needs help. Rescue missions may have done their job and withdrawn from that country, but rehabilitation efforts are still on. While several agencies and individuals from across the world have jumped at the opportunity to extend help to the victims of the calamity, Hyderabadis too are extending all possible assistance. From companies and educational institutions in the city jumping into action to several individuals and NGOs are also doing everything they can to gather relief material that can be sent across to Nepal.

One event that was organised for this cause was the three-day music programme at Heart Cup Cafe by Nirmala V. and her business partner Akshay. The duo got on board several city musicians to perform at the three day event, with all the concerned parties signing on to help out for free. “We decided to hold this event and invite people to attend the programme and donate in kind. We thought it was better to send items like clothes, food and toiletries than cash to the victims. Through this drive we urged people to donate that way,”says Nirmala. Called ‘Pray for Nepal’, the event culminated on Sunday with over 10 artistes performing.

Media professional Sana Mirza also has been helping collect relief material along with her friends. “So far we have managed to send things like crutches, wheelchairs, medicines, first aid kits, clothes and dry ration. I was a little hesitant to collect cash as I didn't want to hand it over to someone that I couldn't trust it with,” she says, adding, “though a lot of people have donated, it is still not enough. However, people are quite forthcoming and the instant they see our messages on social media they've been calling and texting for details. A friend's uncle works with the Rotary club in Nepal, so we have been sending cash donations if any, to him, and he buys medicines to distribute, with that amount.”

Quick, impromptu teams are also doing their bit to help. Take for instance, the Nepal quake relief from Hyderabad. The team of like minded individuals created a Facebook page to draw attention to the cause and have already sent a batch of essentials like baby food, dry ration and medicines. In fact, their page on Facebook urges people to avoid sending clothes and blankets since the immediate need is for medication and food items. They've created a couple of drop points across the city where volunteers can make their donations. Says Sohel Mateen, one of the members of the group, “We've been asking people to donate things like rice, milk powder and medicines, since that is what is needed in Nepal now. Especially medication like paracetamol, since a lot of people at the relief camps are suffering from fever and paracetamol is in short supply there.” He adds, that while a domestic airline had announced that they would fly relief material to Nepal for free, their local office said that they had no such scheme. “So we are sending whatever we collect to a contact person in Mumbai who is shipping it off to Nepal,” says Sohel.

Local NGOs are also putting together supplies to be sent. Arun Daniel Yellamaty, founder Youngistaan Foundation, says, “We've managed to collect rice, tents and blankets from our centres in Delhi, Bhopal, Mumbai and Hyderabad and have sent across close to 100 rice bags apart from clothes and medication. The good thing is people are very eager to help and have come forward to donate these items even before we thought of sending them. We have been coordinating with a few local NGOs in Nepal and are sending them what they feel is required on ground.”

Here’s hoping all this goodwill will actually help victims of the earthquake in Nepal.

We've been asking people to donate things like rice, milk powder and medicines, since that is what is needed in Nepal now.
</text>