<url>
http://www.coloradoan.com/story/opinion/2015/05/11/nepal-earthquake/27149619/
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Soapbox: Nepalese earthquake: A story of disaster, resilience
</headline>

<text>
Nishesh Chalise (Photo: Courtesy photo)

Waking up to the news of utter devastation in Nepal was mind boggling. The stream of images and videos of the aftermath added to the sinking feeling. Growing up in Nepal, earthquakes were part of the conversation. Walking through the narrow streets with old buildings, one would often wonder "imagine the chaos here if an earthquake happened." People would immediately follow that up with "well the last one happened in 1934, we are due for the 'big one.'" A combination of political turmoil for the past few decades and poverty have played an important role in the lack of preparedness.

The number of fatalities has reached more than 7,000, and injuries total more than 14,000. It is estimated to increase. UNICEF estimates that 1.7 million children are in need of clean water, shelter and sanitation. Millions have been displaced for whom recovery will be a long and arduous process. Several UNESCO world heritage sites have also been destroyed (see before and after pictures). Although not as painful as the loss of human life and livelihood, these temples are part of the Nepalese identity.

There has been an outpouring of support from governments, corporations and individuals from all over the world. Countries have sent search and rescue teams (SAR), medical teams and tons of relief materials. Big corporations have also chipped in through direct donations or reducing service fees. Individuals around the world have donated to various charities and continue to spread awareness in social media. Without the support the situation would have been dire (see Nepal Support).

There have also been countless of self-organized groups within Nepal that are coordinating recovery and relief work. Everyday pictures of people being rescued from under the rubble give hope to the tireless workers. Members of the Nepalese police and army have done a tremendous job; all the while worrying about their own family members in villages.

The recovery and relief work is now moving to the rural parts of the country, where entire villages have turned to rubble. The terrain, weather and overall lack of infrastructure in those areas will add to the challenge. People in these areas have lost everything: house, family members, livestock and their community. Recovery will require a tremendous amount of resilience and support.

As a global community we have learned that when disaster strikes the best thing people can do is donate money. However, there are hundreds of organizations and funding campaigns. The best places to donate money are organizations that have been operating in the country for a while, understand the local context and will be there on the long run.

The recovery effort will need to go on for multiple years. It has been only a couple weeks and new hashtags have already dominated the news cycle. In the first week, it was clear that most of the work in the coming week, months and years will be done by local communities and organizations. Here are four (out of many) that are doing great work:

America Nepal Medical Foundation; Bibek Sheel Nepali; Himalayan Community Development Society (initiated by Dr. Gyanesh Lama); and Aythos.

Nishesh Chalise lives in Fort Collins.

Read or Share this story: http://noconow.co/1HdAH5r
</text>