<url>
http://www.jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=4737
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Jeju community gathers for Nepal earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
▲ Bags of rice were among the items on sale to raise funds. Photo by Yoki Photography All photos by Yoki Photography ▲ Teas and yoghurt drinks were among the most popular on the day. Photo by Yoki Photography The Jeju community held a food and market fundraising event on Sunday, May 10, to raise money for victims of the Nepal earthquake. The April disaster left at least 8,000 dead and 18,000 injured. The UN says more than 8 million people have been affected with hundreds of thousands homeless. There are around 1,100 Nepalis living on Jeju and 47 have reported damage to property or injury to family members, while others have reported bereavements (although exact figures are not available). The Nepal Community, Jeju Migrant Peace Community and Jeju Multicultural Family Center thus joined forces to raise funds for the relief effort. A vigil and awareness-raising event was first held at Jeju City Hall on Sunday, May 3, before a larger food and market event was held at the nearby Cool Hof on Sunday, May 10. There were sales of rice, handicrafts, clothes and Korean and Nepali foods as the Cool Hof owner donated use of the premises for the day. All proceeds from sales went toward the relief fund. ▲ Photo by Yoki Photography Normally quiet on a Sunday afternoon, smiling faces from the mountainous country between China and India greeted visitors as the bar thronged with families from all over the world. As children scurried around the room and the unmistakable scent of of curry filled the air, Subhadra Palungwa, representative of the Jeju Nepal community and interpreter for Jeju Multicultural Family Center, expressed her happiness at the impressive turnout in support the Nepali people. “Because there are lots of Nepali people on Jeju, there are lots of people who have suffered [earthquake] damage. So we asked the Jeju people to help us through promotions on TV, newspapers and other media,” she said. ▲ Many families joined the event for lunch. Photo by Yoki Photography Subhadra said it was a sign of the good relationship between the two communities and added that there are other non-emergency fundraising events throughout the year, and she had personally visited to donate school uniforms, bags and rice to an orphanage in the past. ▲ Nepal community representative Subhadra Palungwa. Photo by Yoki Photography “We have a great relationship with the Korean community. Both the Jeju Migrant Peace Community and Jeju Multicultural Family Center work well together to help the Nepali people.” A decision on how to use the funds raised will be made after consulting with the damaged communities. Essential items and materials will be supplied directly to Nepal while other funds will be sent through the Nepali Embassy in Seoul. For more information contact Subhadra Palungwa at 010-9143-4438 Donations can be made to:

Nonghyup: 903827-51-019001

Account holder: 제주외국인평화공동체 (Jeju International Peace Community)
</text>