<url>
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/india-others/india-wont-send-team-till-nepal-asks-for-it/
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: India adopts wait and watch approach, says won’t send team till Nepal asks for it
</headline>

<text>
The government has also put National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Air Force (IAF) on standby to respond to any emergency call from Nepal. (Source: AP photo)

Unlike last time, India will wait for Nepal to make the first call, before rushing any help to the neighbouring country, which was hit by another earthquake on Tuesday.

Senior Home Ministry officials held three meetings with officials of Prime Minister’s Office and Cabinet Secretary in the day to discuss the tragedy. The government has also put National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indian Air Force (IAF) on standby to respond to any emergency call from Nepal.

PHOTOS: 7.4 magnitude earthquake rattles Nepal, sends tremors across north India

“We have put NDRF and IAF teams on standby. This time we have decided to wait and watch. Either we should get a request from Indian Ambassador in Nepal or the Nepalese ambassador here in Delhi. We don’t want to be seen as interfering in their work,” said a senior official.

Share This Article Related Article Special to the Express: How the NDRF raced against time in Nepal

Special to the Express: How the NDRF raced against time in Nepal Nepal Earthquake: NDRF work makes case for SAARC centre

Nepal Earthquake: NDRF work makes case for SAARC centre Nepal earthquake: 4000 people take the bus ride to india

Nepal earthquake: 4000 people take the bus ride to india LIVE: Nepal quake death toll climbs to 6,204; govt assures Rs 1 lac compensation

LIVE: Nepal quake death toll climbs to 6,204; govt assures Rs 1 lac compensation Nepal Quake: NDRF squad on standby in Pune for rescue operations

Nepal Quake: NDRF squad on standby in Pune for rescue operations Nepal Earthquake Relief Effort: India reaches out, touches down

The move bears significance as Nepal had abruptly asked all foreign rescue teams, including India’s NDRF, to return home 10 days after the April 25 earthquake.

WATCH VIDEO

“We have identified 12 teams of NDRF who will fly from Ghaziabad, Pune and Chennai if Nepal makes a request,” said the official.

PM directed all concerned authorities to be on alert for carrying out rescue and relief operations, as required. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015

PM took stock of the situation following the fresh major earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India, at a high-level meeting. — PMO India (@PMOIndia) May 12, 2015

He said the home secretary gave strict instructions that experience from last time should not be repeated. There is also a likelihood of a nodal desk for the mission.

Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of the situation and directed all authorities concerned to be on alert for rescue and relief operations as required. Home minister Rajnath Singh also spoke to India’s envoy in Nepal.

The government has decided to set up a single helpline number-1078 for all the queries related to the disaster.

Video of the day

For all the latest India News, download Indian Express App
</text>