<url>
http://www.chinatopix.com/articles/48898/20150512/nepal-earthquake-british-doctor-rescues-23-injured-everest-avalanche-despite.htm
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Earthquake: British Doctor Rescues 23 Injured In Everest Avalanche Despite Injury : World : Chinatopix
</headline>

<text>
World

Nepal Earthquake: British Doctor Rescues 23 Injured In Everest Avalanche Despite Injury

Dr. Rachel Tullet, a British Doctor from Kent and a specialist in emergency and wildlife medicine, helped 23 severely injured people stay alive until further help could arrive during the Everest avalanche that was triggered by the 7.9 Nepal earthquake, according to the Guardian.



Tullet was thrown into a rock and covered with ice when the Nepal earthquake trigerred the incident. Despite injury, Tullet swiftly mobilized everyone in the area who was injured.



Like Us on Facebook

Advertisement

The twenty five people consisted of nineteen Nepalese Nationals and six foreign climbers. After the Nepal earthquake hit the region, Dr. Tullet kept them alive until rescue operations located their base camp almost a day later.



Two of the twenty five people died due to injuries upon arrival in Kathmandu.



"I realized I injured my leg, but I was just amazed that I survived it. And in the scale of what happened to other people, it didn't even register," said Tullet.



David Hamilton, expedition leader of the Jagged Globe Team, recalled how Tullet did not tell everyone that she already broke her kneecap prior to helping everyone. Tullet already has a gaping wound in her leg but stitched it the next day, without the aid of anesthetic.



Prior to the avalanche triggered by the Nepal earthquake, Tullet voluntarily offered her medical services in Everest ER.



The Himalayan Rescue Association supervises this special medical unit located at the mountain's base camp. Its mission is to provide paid care for expeditions and render free medical care for the Sherpas, such as the one they conducted after the Nepal earthquake.



During the rescue operations after the Nepal earthquake struck, majority of the Sherpas were rescued despite issue that the first priority of the teams were the Everest climbers.



Tullet is slowly recovering both physically and psychologically in New Zealand but has plans to return to Nepal after two weeks. The British doctor verbalized that her recovery is a long process but will definitely come back and help out the Nepal earthquake victims.



Advertisement

©2017 Chinatopix All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission
</text>