<url>
http://www.ibtimes.com.au/back-back-earthquakes-jolt-nepal-epicentres-near-mount-everest-1447847
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Back-to-back Earthquakes Jolt Nepal, Epicentres Near Mount Everest
</headline>

<text>
IN PHOTO: People walk past a collapsed building after a fresh 7.3 earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 12, 2015. A 7.3 magnitude earthquake killed at least 37 people and spread panic in Nepal on Tuesday, bringing down buildings already weakened by a devastating tremor less than three weeks ago and unleashing landslides in Himalayan valleys near Mount Everest. The earthquake was centered 76 km (47 miles) east of the capital in a hilly area close to the border with Tibet, according to coordinates provided by the U.S. Geological Survey.

IN PHOTO: People walk past a collapsed building after a fresh 7.3 earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 12, 2015. A 7.3 magnitude earthquake killed at least 37 people and spread panic in Nepal on Tuesday, bringing down buildings already weakened by a devastating tremor less than three weeks ago and unleashing landslides in Himalayan valleys near Mount Everest. The earthquake was centered 76 km (47 miles) east of the capital in a hilly area close to the border with Tibet, according to coordinates provided by the U.S. Geological Survey. REUTERS/Athit Perawongmetha

A little over three weeks after a powerful earthquake in Nepal, another 7.3 - on the Richter scale earthquake shook the Himalayan country later on Tuesday; killing at least 50 people (at the time of reporting) and creating fresh panic just when it was getting back on feet.

The last earthquake on April 25 took away more than 8,000 lives in Nepal. A 21-year-old student told NBC News from Kathmandu that the quake today was "completely unexpected".

According to the U.S. Geological Survey, the temblor hit midday in the Gaurishankar Conservation Area, a mountainous area near Nepal’s border with China. A magnitude-6.3 earthquake followed the major one about half and hour later in the Ramechhap district, Nepal. Meanwhile, at least 6 aftershocks were felt across the country.

In addition to those killed, 1,129 people were injured in Kathmandu and other areas, said Lakshmi Prasad Dhakal, a spokesman for Nepal’s Home Ministry.

Though USGS initially reported that the quake had an epicentre 83 km east of Kathmandu near Zham in China but later changed it to epicentres in Kodari and areas close to Mount Everest in Ramechhap district.

The quake was witnessed in certain parts of neighbouring India as well. Two people were reported killed in Bihar’s capital Patna due to a wall collapse. The earthquake warnings have been issued for North and North Eastern states of India, including Ghaziabad, Guwahati, Patna and Kolkata. Meanwhile, the Chinese media reported one person died in Tibet after rocks fell on a car. The death toll could go up in India, so far only 6 have been reported dead.

The Home Minister of India, Rajnath Singh told reporters in New Delhi that the government is prepared. "There is no need to panic. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is on the alert," he said.

To report problems or to leave feedback about this article, e-mail: barsha23@gmail.com.
</text>