<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-4-earthquake-hits-nepal-tremor-felt-across-india/1/437601.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
8 earthquakes hit Nepal days after April 25 temblor, 66 dead, tremors felt across India
</headline>

<text>
Nepal's 7.3-magnitude earthquake on Tuesday was followed by at least seven more tremors in a span of less than two hours, the IMD said.

The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) also said that the 7.3 quake was not a fresh tremor but an aftershock of the April 25 trembler in Nepal which has experienced at least 102 tremors since then.The first tremor shook Nepal and parts of North India at 12.35 PM, followed by a medium intensity jolt of 5.4 on the Richter Scale at 1.04 PM. Three minutes later, another 6.2 aftershock was recorded.

The remaining five tremors were recorded till 2.04 PM which measured between 4 and 5 on the Richter scale."Today's quake was not a fresh quake, but an aftershock.

Atleast 66 people killed and over 1100 were injured on Tuesday's Nepal earthquake as buildings that were weakened by a devastating quake less than three weeks ago collapsed in the Himalayan nation which is yet to recover from a devastating April 25 temblor. Live Updates

Local residents evacuate onto a street minutes after an earthquake in central Kathmandu, Nepal on May 12, 2015. Photo: Reuters

The first quake - measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale - struck at 12:35 pm and was epicentred around 70 kilometres east of Kathmandu at a depth of 18.5 kilometres, Indian Meteorological Department said, adding that three more temblors of 6.2, 5.4 and 4.8 intensity soon followed.

Nepalese military personnel stands on a collapsed building after earthquake in centre of Kathmandu, Nepal on May 12, 2015. Photo: Reuters

Read: Nepal earthquake: Dozens of cracked buildings collapse



The Union Home Ministry said there was also a near simultaneous earthquake epicentred in Afghanistan which measured 6.9 on the Richter scale. Tremors were also felt in southern China, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Read: Nepal earthquake: 4 dead in Chautara after buildings collapse



Initial reports said that 19 people were killed in Dolakha district, located about 170 km from Kathmandu. Dolakha is about 130 km from Kodari, the epicentre of the 7.3 magnitude earthquake that struck in the afternoon.

Police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam earlier said that four people were killed in Chautara town in Sindhupalchowk district and three people died in capital Kathmandu. He said that the number of deaths is likely to go up as they await news from other areas.

Watch: Members vacate Parliament as series of earthquake hit Nepal



Five died in Sindhupalchowk, the district to the east of Kathmandu that reported the most deaths in the April 25 shaker, district administrator Krishna Gwayali said. He said the deaths were on a highway towards Tibet. Six more were killed in Dolakha district close to the epicentre, an eyewitness said, adding that rescuers were trying to reach three people trapped in a house.

A Nepalese women holds her daughter after evacuating to a street minutes after earthquake in central Kathmandu, Nepal on May 12, 2015. Photo: Reuters

In Kathmandu, three people died and two five-storeyed buildings collapsed, an official said. The April 25 earthquake which measured 7.9 on Richter scale had claimed over 8,000 lives in Nepal.

Read: 4 earthquakes jolt Nepal, tremors felt across north India, epicentres close to Everest



Prime Minister Narendra Modi took stock of the situation and directed all authorities concerned to be on alert for rescue and relief operations as required. "PM took stock of the situation following the fresh major earthquake felt in Nepal and parts of India, at a high-level meeting," the Prime Minister's Office said.

Nepal earthquakes: 8 killed in Bihar

In Bihar, at least eight people, including three children, were killed and nearly two dozen people were injured when a massive earthquake caused walls to collapse, officials said.

A labourer was killed when an under-construction wall collapsed in Danapur near Patna and a child was killed in Siwan district when a wall collapsed. Another child was seriously injured, officials of state disaster management department said.

Two children were killed in Manigachi in Darbhanga district in a wall collapse and a woman was killed in Dumra of Sitamarhi district when she came under the debris of a wall that fell. One person died in Hajipur in Vaishali district, Nawada and Saran districts due to the quake.

Over half a dozen girl students of a government middle school at Bihya in Bhojpur district were injured when they were trying to rush out of class room. In Forbesganj in Araria district, bordering Nepal, at least 12 people were injured in a stampede during the quake.

According to state disaster management department officials here, there were reports of cracks in several houses in Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Patna, Gaya, and Raxaul in East Champaran district.

Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has called a meeting of the state disaster management department and directed officials concerned to assess the damage caused by the quake. Nearly 80 people were killed in India, mostly in Bihar, in the April 25 temblor.


</text>