<url>
http://www.firstpost.com/world/live-casualties-rise-in-nepal-after-7-3-magnitude-quake-19-dead-1000-injured-2239828.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Live: 68 dead as new earthquake hits Nepal, thousands spend night outdoors
</headline>

<text>
An earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale hit Nepal and many parts of North India with the impact being felt up in Delhi, West Bengal, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other parts of north India.

The epicentre has been located on the Nepal-China border, 83 km east of Kathmandu.

The USGS has also reported about another quake with its epicentre in Afghanistan measuring 4.7 on the Richter scale.

The Delhi Secretariat was immediately evacuated after the tremors felt in the national capital.

On 25 April, a massive 7.9 magnitude had hit Nepal and many parts of North India with the Himalayan Kingdom suffering huge loss of life and property. The earthquake killed over 7,000 people in Nepal.

The number of houses destroyed in Nepal due to the 25 April earthquake was over 1,60,000, nearly twice the number of households wrecked in the 1934's deadly temblor that has been the country's worst disaster of all times.

After the quake, India had launched a massive rescue mission armed with modern equipment, dumpers and earth removers and aided by sniffer dogs, disaster relief workers were trying to locate possible survivors against fading hopes.

The quake that flattened homes and buildings and the subsequent powerful aftershocks had forced people out to live in the open under plastic tents, barely shielding them from cold and rains that have pounded the city.

Fuel and medicines were also in short supply. The picture was the same in suburbs of Kathmandu and in other rural areas.

In worst-affected districts like Gorkha and Sindhupalchowk, the damage was even more extensive, with up to 90 percent of houses destroyed, according to a situation report released by the United Nation's humanitarian agency OCHA (Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs).

Among the affected districts, Sindhupalchowk has reported the maximum casualties with over 2,000 deaths, and several hundreds have died in Gorkha, where the epicentre of the deadly quake lay that fateful day.

The report has also estimated $415 million as needed for vital humanitarian relief in the quake-ravaged country. According to the report, the number of houses wrecked in the earthquake 81 years ago stood at 80,893.

The 1934 Great Nepal-Bihar Earthquake, with its epicentre about 9.5 km south of Mt Everest, had killed several thousands people on both sides of the Himalayas and practically flattened Kathmandu Valley besides levelling several districts in Bihar like Munger, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga, destroying houses and grand palaces.

The 25 April quake had in many ways become an eerie reminder to the 1934 quake, which too has robbed the culturally-rich country of its architectural jewels, including the iconic Ghantaghar (clock tower). The Dharhara tower, a veritable landmark of the city was destroyed in 1934 as well, but was rebuilt later, only to meet a more cruel fate this time.

(With inputs from PTI)
</text>