<url>
http://www.enca.com/opinion/after-disaster-reflections-nepalquake
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
After the disaster: Reflections on the #NepalQuake
</headline>

<text>
The team from eNCA who joined the Gift of the Givers relief mission to Nepal after a devastating earthquake. From left to right: cameraman Thuthuka Zondi, multimedia reporter Bianca Bothma and television news reporter Malungelo Booi.

After witnessing the devastation and loss experienced by the people of Nepal, I cannot begin to imagine the further effects of another earthquake.

It's been just over two weeks of picking up the pieces in the Himalayan region since that first 7.8 magnitude earthquake, on Saturday 25 April, which led to the deaths of at least 8,000 people.

South African disaster relief organisation Gift of the Givers was preparing a mission to Nepal and I, along with eNCA colleagues Thuthuka Zondi and Malungelo Booi, went with them.

The organisation took a team of around 80 people consisting of medical and search and rescue specialists, and media.



On Tuesday 12 May, two weeks after we set off on our flight to Kathmandu, another 7.4 earthquake has hit the country.



Many of those cracked buildings being held up with flimsy pieces of wood have most likely collapsed and caused even further damage.



While I was in Nepal, everywhere we went I saw collapsed buildings and rubble. Eventually it became hard to lift the camera and take one more picture of another broken building. There was so much destruction.



I will never forget the look of sadness in a woman’s eyes who we met shortly after landing in Nepal.



She knew her husband was trapped in a building in Lalitpur and she told us that all she wanted is for her husband’s body to be removed from the building.



Pictured above: Suntali Tamang, age 27, tells journalists all she wants is her husband's body to be removed from a collapsed building after a devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal on 25 April 2015.

With many more dead and injured after the second quake, how many more families will lose their homes and how many women will lose their husbands.



For seven nights, I slept on a mattress on the floor of the Little Angels school hall with the rest of the team, trying hard to fall asleep in the early hours of the morning.



With the loud airplanes flying low above the school, the incessant barking of packs of dogs and monster size mosquitos biting at my ankles, this wasn’t so easy.



While we were there, my colleagues reported feeling two aftershocks in the middle of the night. I slept through them.



I lay awake and wondered what it was like for all those living in tents outside, the fear they must have felt at the feeling of the earth moving under them.



In Harishhidi, I watched as women covered their mouths with masks and set to work clearing rubble, trying to reclaim pieces of furniture and personal belongings trapped in their destroyed homes.



Pictured above: A woman sorts through rubble in Harishhidi, Lalitpur in the southern valley of Kathmandu.

Figures show that almost 280,000 homes have been destroyed.



I didn’t see people crying or shouting out in despair. Instead, they worked constantly, washing clothes, weaving grass mats, making food, clearing rubble. They were carrying on with their lives.

They were fighting back, determined to overcome the disaster. But now they have been knocked down again.

Having visited Buddhist temples before, I expected that at Swayambunath temple and monastery we would be greeted by the sound of monks praying in quiet tones, and the low rumbling of prayer wheels turning in the wind.



Instead it sounded like a construction site.



At the site of one of Nepal’s oldest religious sites and a Unesco World Heritage I was surprised to see volunteers collecting bricks, which I learnt were considered holy.



One woman told me that the bricks are spiritually valuable to them and they wanted to try and preserve as much of the historical significance of the site as possible.



On the last day in Kathmandu I watched as women came with children dressed in their finest clothes to wait in a queue in Lubhu during the heat of the day for a food parcel and medical treatment.



Little girls in sequined dresses ran around smiling and playing games. Babies with black kohl around their eyes fell asleep on their mothers’ shoulders.



The story of a young woman nine months pregnant upset me. She has no home to go to once her baby is born besides the tent where she is currently living.



For her and many others, the next few months are going to be a tough challenge, with the monsoon season coming and no home to shelter in, will she and her new baby survive?



Now that the second quake has struck, I wonder where she is, if her baby has been born and if they are safe…

It’s a strange reality - for many journalists, covering these tragedies can be a highlight of their careers. I know it feels like one for me.

The greatest highlight for me is having witnessed the the power of the human spirit.

The wave of humanitarian support, especially from Nepali people themselves, who despite having lost so much continue to help each other every day, was inspiring.

eNCA
</text>