<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68501430/nepal-hit-by-73-earthquake-dozens-dead
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Nepal hit by 7.3 earthquake, dozens dead
</headline>

<text>
Nepal hit by 7.3 earthquake, dozens dead

Adriaan Los/YouTube Amazing footage emerges showing the moment the earthquake hit a pool party taking place in Kathmandu.

A second powerful earthquake in less than three weeks has spread panic in Nepal, bringing down buildings weakened by the first disaster and killing at least 66 people, including 17 in neighbouring India and one in Chinese Tibet.

Most of the reported fatalities were in villages and towns east of Kathmandu, only just beginning to pick up the pieces from the April 25 quake that left more than 8000 dead.

The US military's Pacific Command said a Marine Corps helicopter involved in disaster relief had gone missing, with six US Marines and two Nepalese soldiers aboard.

AP NAVESH CHITRAKAR/ REUTERS ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA/Reuters ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA/Reuters Bikram Rai/AP NAVESH CHITRAKAR/Reuters Getty Images Getty Images Getty Images Getty Images NAVESH CHITRAKAR/Reuters NAVESH CHITRAKAR/Reuters NAVESH CHITRAKAR/Reuters ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA/Reuters Reuters Reuters ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA/ Reuters ATHIT PERAWONGMETHA/ Reuters Reuters Anadolu Agency/ Getty GETTY Anadolu Agency/ Getty Anadolu Agency/ Getty GETTY Pacific Press Women mourn the death of a family member after a wall collapsed in an earthquake in Danapur, on the outskirts of Patna, in the eastern Indian state of Bihar. Strong shaking was felt across northern India, with some deaths reported when rooftops or walls collapsed on them. A woman stands on the debris of collapsed homes after the 7.3-magnitude earthquake. Residents evacuate from a shop during an earthquake in central Kathmandu. Nepalese military personnel remove debris in search of survivors. Traffic grinds to a halt after the earthquake hit Nepal. A man stands on the debris of collapsed homes. Buildings lie in ruins after the magnitude-7.3 earthquake hit Nepal. People gather in the safety of open space in Kathmandu, Nepal. Soldiers and residents collect belongings among debris of a five-storey building in Balaju neighbourhood of Kathmandu. An injured woman is carried to a hospital in Kathmandu. A woman injured in an earthquake walks toward a hospital soon after the earthquake in Sankhu. A US rescue team member walks above debris in search for survivors after the earthquake in Kathmandu. An armed police personnel looking for survivors stands in front of a collapsed house in Kathmandu. Local residents comfort each others during an earthquake in central Kathmandu. Nepalese police personnel run to rescue earthquake victims believed to be trapped after the earthquake in Sankhu. Nepalese military personnel and international rescue staff check on a collapsed building after an earthquake in the centre of Kathmandu, Nepal, on May 12. At least five people were killed and 300 injured in the quake, just weeks after a devastating quake killed more than 8,000 in Nepal. Buildings collapsed during the quake. A Nepalese women holds her daughter after evacuating to a street minutes after earthquake People escape in Kathmandu after the magnitude 7.3 earthquake hit Nepal. Patients were carried from a Kathmandu hospital after the May 12 quake. People fled into the streets after a magnitude 7.3 earthquake hit Nepal as the country recovers from last month's devastating earthquake, in Kathmandu. The quake was located near the Everest base camp, but felt strongly in Kathmandu. The quake was also felt in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, India. This woman lost consciousness during the earthquake and was carried to hospital. In Allahabad, people ran from a shopping mall after the Nepal earthquake on May 12. 1 of 25 « Previous « Previous Next » Next »

The new 7.3-magnitude quake was centred 76 km east of the capital in a hilly area close to the border with Tibet, according to co-ordinates provided by the US Geological Survey, and unleashed landslides in Himalayan valleys near Mount Everest.

Villagers who watched their homes collapse said they only survived because they were already living in tents.

Aid workers reported serious damage to some villages in the worst-affected Charikot area and said some people were still trapped under rubble. Witnesses said rocks and mud came crashing down remote hillsides lined with roads and small hamlets.

Canadian Red Cross video shows a dramatic landslide in northern Nepal, recorded as the country's second big earthquake struck.

"We still don't have a clear view of the scale of the problem," said Dan Sermand, emergency coordinator at medical NGO Medecins Sans Frontieres, which surveyed the area by air and saw multiple landslides.

The United Nations has only raised 13 per cent of the US$423 million (NZ$573.9 million) it said was needed to help Nepal recover from the April quake, which measured 7.8. Relief workers said they were already suffering a lack of material before the new quake.

READ MORE:

* Kiwis terrified, but staying to help

* 'I watched my house go down a hill'

* Social media on the quake

* Nepal army rescues 117

* Sherpas reluctant to tackle Mt Everest again

* Sixty bodies recovered in Nepal valley

* US Marine helicopter missing

Robindra Basnet/Facebook The moment of building collapse after a large earthquake strikes Nepal again.

"Why are (internally displaced people) sleeping on our office floor? Where are our tents? Where are our tarpaulins? Where are our hygiene kits?" said Brian Kelly of the International Organisation for Migration, at a large relief camp in the hill-top town of Chautara, hard-hit by both quakes.

"They need to be paid for," he said.

A team of about a dozen volunteers searched the rubble for survivors in the town, the biggest in a district that suffered the worst casualties in April. Several people were believed to be trapped. "It's better to search at night so it's quiet," said Rejoien Guru, a volunteer from Kathmandu.

A fresh 7.3-magnitude earthquake hits Nepal, killing more than two dozen people, as buildings weakened by last month's devastating quake are brought down. Mana Rabiee reports.

He and others pointed flashlights into the decimated buildings hit by the twin quakes, calling out for survivors.

"If anyone is in there, make a sound!" he called in Nepali.

WEATHER HAMPERING RESCUE

Reuters A Nepalese women holds her daughter after evacuating to a street minutes after the earthquake in central Kathmandu.

Initial assessments by the Nepal Red Cross Society suggested hundreds of homes have collapsed, many of which had already been damaged by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck the country two weeks ago, New Zealand Red Cross spokeswoman Hanna Butler said. "Regions already struggling to cope with the effects of the earlier earthquake were hit hard."

Martin Faller, head of operations for the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) in Asia Pacific, said the combination of rain and aftershocks were making the task of responding to the needs of communities a challenge.

"Today's earthquake has dealt a double blow to many of the same people who were hit by the 25 April quake. More people will now be in need of emergency shelter but they will also need support dealing with the trauma they have experienced," he said. "People are very scared."



@JackBoard / Twitter Hundreds of people run out of Kathmandu airport in the moments after the quake hit.

FAMILY WATCHES HOUSE DISAPPEAR



In the town of Sangachowk, residents were outside receiving government food aid when the new quake struck. A family sat on the edge of the road where their house had just fallen down the hill, rubble spread over hundreds of metres below.



"We watched it go down slowly, slowly," said Ashok Parajuli, aged 30.



In Charikot, where at least 20 bodies were recovered, hotel owner Top Thapa said the quake was at least as strong as last month.



"We saw houses falling, collapsing along the ridge," said Thapa, owner of Charikot Panorama Resort. He said he saw five or six multi-storey buildings come down.



Politicians dashed for the exit of Nepal's parliament building in Kathmandu, and office towers swayed as far away as New Delhi. The tremors that began about 12.30 could be felt in Bangladesh and were followed by a series of powerful aftershocks.

Parents clutched children tightly, and hundreds of people frantically tried to call relatives on mobile phones. Shopkeepers closed their stores and the streets were jammed with people rushing to check on families.

Elsewhere, people huddled in public spaces, too nervous to venture inside.

"I am very scared and I am with my two sons. The school building is cracked and bits of it, I can see they have collapsed," said Rhita Doma Sherpa, a nurse with the Mountain Medicine Centre in Namche Bazaar, a departure point for trekkers headed to Everest.



"It was lunchtime. All the kids were outside. Thank God."

'WE SAW THE MOUNTAIN FALL'



May is peak season for climbing and trekking in Nepal's high-altitude valleys and peaks, but the usually bustling lodges and tea-houses were close to empty after thousands of tourists fled the April quake.



Dambar Parajuli, president of the Expedition Operators' Association of Nepal, said there were no climbers or Nepali sherpa guides at Everest Base Camp. Mountaineers seeking to scale the world's tallest peak called off this year's Everest season after 18 people died when last month's quake triggered avalanches on the mountain.



"All of them have already left," Parajuli said.



In Lukla, the departure point for treks to Everest, buildings cracked and small landslides were triggered when the ground shook. At least three schoolchildren were injured.



Susana Perez from Madrid was on a 10-day trek with her husband to Island Peak in the Everest region and was about to reach Lukla.



"We saw the mountain in front of us fall down - earth and rocks. There were some houses underneath but it was not clear if they were hit," Perez said.

In Nepal the death toll reached 48, with 1176 injured, police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam said. Seventeen people were killed in the Indian states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the home ministry said in a statement, and Chinese media reported one person died in Tibet after rocks fell on a car.

Indian and US military aircraft flew more than 60 wounded people to Kathmandu from affected areas.

Nepal had barely begun to recover from the devastation caused by last month's earthquake, the country's worst in more than 80 years, which killed at least 8046 people and injured more than 17,800.

Hundreds of thousands of buildings, including ancient Hindu and Buddhist temples, were destroyed and many more damaged.

Some foreign rescue teams have returned home from Nepal, but may need to be pressed into service again.

At a welcoming ceremony for an Israeli military rescue delegation on Tuesday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said: "I know that you are already prepared for the next mission, anywhere it might be required. And to judge by the news, it is possible that such a mission now faces us."









NEPAL EARTHQUAKE APRIL 25: READ MORE

* Dramatic footage of the Nepal Earthquake emerges

* Rescuers find 100-plus bodies under Nepal avalanche

* Nepal, aid agencies trade blame as confusion mars quake relief

* Kiwi's video shows Nepal earthquake terror

* Nepal Earthquake: At least 250 missing after landslide

* One Kiwi dead after Nepal earthquake

* How to donate money to Nepal for earthquake aid



- Reuters
</text>