<url>
http://www.9news.com.au/world/2015/05/13/02/48/dozens-dead-as-new-quake-hits-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Search continues for Nepal quake survivors
</headline>

<text>
Rescuers are battling to reach survivors of a deadly new earthquake in Nepal that triggered landslides and brought down buildings, as the search continues for a US military helicopter that went missing while delivering aid.

Thousands of traumatised survivors spent the night outdoors, afraid to return to their houses after Tuesday's 7.3-magnitude quake hit, less than three weeks after the country was devastated by its deadliest quake in more than 80 years.

At least 65 people were killed in the latest disaster, bringing the overall death toll to more than 8,200 and compounding the already monumental challenge of reaching far-flung mountain communities in desperate need of shelter, food and clean water.

The Nepal army on Wednesday resumed its aerial search for a US Marine Corps helicopter that went missing during a disaster relief operation in the eastern district of Dolakha.

The Pentagon has said there may have been a problem with fuel on the chopper, which was carrying six US Marines and two Nepal army soldiers when it disappeared.

Tuesday's quake was centred 76km east of Kathmandu and was felt as far away as New Delhi, and caused buildings to collapse in Tibet in neighbouring China. A second tremor and more aftershocks also followed.

Two large buildings damaged in the 7.8-magnitude quake that hit on April 25 collapsed in Kathmandu on Tuesday.

But Dolakha and Sindhupalchowk, two of the districts worst affected by the original quake, bore the brunt of the damage caused by the fresh tremors.

The Red Cross said it had received reports of large-scale casualties in the town of Chautara in Sindhupalchowk, where its Norwegian branch is running a field hospital.

Martin Faller from the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in Asia Pacific, said the combination of rain and aftershocks were making the task of responding to communities a challenge.

"(Tuesday's) earthquake has dealt a double blow to many of the same people who were hit by the 25 April quake. More people will now be in need of emergency shelter but they will also need support dealing with the trauma they have experienced," he said. "People are very scared."

There were several reports of landslides in the worst-hit areas, making the task of getting relief to remote communities in the Himalayan country even more difficult.

Save the Children said the Gorkha region, near the epicentre of the April 25 quake, had also been hit by landslides and many key roads were blocked.

"Although our personnel are already present in quake-hit areas, these blockages will make it difficult to transport relief materials," said police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam.

The head of the country's mountaineering association, Ang Tsering Sherpa, said many houses had collapsed and there were reports of damage to infrastructure in the eastern Khumbu region, where Mount Everest is located.

Scientists said the quake was part of a chain reaction set off by the larger one that struck on April 25 in Lamjung district west of Kathmandu.

"Large earthquakes are often followed by other quakes, sometimes as large as the initial one," said Carmen Solana, a volcanologist at Britain's University of Portsmouth.

© AFP 2017
</text>