<url>
http://thedailystar.net/world/south-asia/4-killed-second-nepal-quake-81849
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Fresh 7.3 earthquake kills 37 in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
A major earthquake has struck eastern Nepal, near Mount Everest, two weeks after more than 8,000 died in a devastating quake.

At least 37 people have been killed and more than 1,000 injured, officials say.

The latest earthquake hit near the town of Namche Bazaar and sent thousands of panicked residents on to the streets on the capital, Kathmandu.

It had a magnitude of 7.3, compared to the 7.8 of the 25 April quake in western Nepal.

The latest tremor was also felt in northern India and Bangladesh. It was centred about 76km (47 miles) east of Kathmandu, in a rural area close to the Chinese border. Three people have been confirmed dead in India.

The quake struck at 12:35 local time (06:50 GMT). Rescue helicopters have been sent to districts north-east of the capital, that are believed to be worst hit.

A spokesman for Nepal's government told the BBC that 31 of the country's 75 districts had been affected.

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala called on all those who had assisted Nepal since the 25 April quake "to once again extend your helping hand".

The BBC's Yogita Limaye, who was in Nepal's mountains when the latest earthquake struck, said: "The earth shook and it shook for a pretty long time.

"I can completely understand the sense of panic. We have been seeing tremors - it's been two-and-a-half weeks since the first quake. But this one really felt like it went on for a really long time. People have been terrified."

At least four people were killed in the town of Chautara, east of Kathmandu, where a number of buildings are reported to have collapsed.

The International Organisation for Migration said bodies were being pulled from rubble there.

Krishna Gyawali, the chief district officer for Chautara, said there had been a number of landslides.

The BBC's Navin Singh Khadka says the new earthquake has brought down more houses and lodges in the Everest region but that local officials report very few tourists are still in the area following the 25 April quake.

The quake struck at a depth of 15km (9.3 miles), according to the US Geological Survey - the same depth as the April quake. Shallow earthquakes are more likely to cause more damage at the surface.

Tuesday's earthquake is likely to be one of the largest to hit Nepal, which has suffered hundreds of aftershocks since 25 April.

The 7.3 quake was followed by six aftershocks of magnitude 5.0 or higher.

One tremor that hit 30 minutes later, centred on the district of Ramechhap, east of Kathmandu, had a magnitude of 6.3.
</text>