<url>
http://theviewspaper.net/four-more-temblors-shake-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Four More Temblors Shake Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The temblor that put Nepal in shambles two weeks back hasn’t died down yet. Four strong earthquakes hit Nepal today afternoon, leaving the nation trembling with the fear of more. The first two earthquakes measuring 7.3 and 6.9 on the Richter scale took place within the span of 30 minutes. Little over an hour, two more earthquakes of 5.4 and 4.8 magnitudes, were felt in the region. At about 12:40 P.M. swathes of North India shook due to the tremors, sending everybody out of their homes and offices as the shudders conjured up a rather tense atmosphere.

While the epicenter of the first earthquake happened to be the region between Kathmandu and Mount Everest, the second one was recorded to take place near Kodali in Nepal. According to the Indian Meteorological Department, the aftershocks are likely to loom over the region for weeks or maybe months. For the tiny Himalayan region that is still recovering from the massive temblor, today’s quake was nothing less than a blast from the past. As per the initial reports, approximately 32 people have lost their lives in Nepal while over 1000 people have been injured. The earthquakes that took place today were shallow, that is, 10km deep. Shallow earthquakes are far more dangerous pertaining to the high amount of energy released over a smaller area. The relief mission has also been suspended due to the fear of more earthquakes and avalanches.

The April 25 earthquake has already claimed more than 8000 lives and injured over 17,000 in Nepal. Around 50 people died in Bihar due to the catastrophe that hit the region. Delhi NCR, Himachal, Gujarat, Sikkim, Bihar, Bengal along with the southern regions of Chennai and Tamil Nadu also quivered due to the tremors. In Delhi and Gurgaon, the buildings quavered for over a minute, sending the inmates running into the open. Metro services also came to a halt during the quake.

In the wake of the disaster, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said, “Please do not panic and maintain calm. Earthquake situation is being closely monitored and officials are already in the field.” Warning against panic, Home Minister Rajnath Singh extended India’s help to Nepal, “Whatever help Nepal needs, we will provide it.”

What is most saddening as well as terrifying is the ever increasing count of deaths and casualties.

Sangeeta Purkayastha

Image Source: The Viewspaper

Share :
</text>