<url>
http://www.clarencebee.com/news/2015-05-13/Local_News/Author_returns_home_to_share_stories_of_Nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Author returns home to share stories of Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Author returns home to share stories of Nepal

by MARY BEST Reporter

Dan Szczesny knows what it’s like to be far away from home and will be sharing stories of his travels when he stops at the Clarence Public Library this weekend.

The Cheektowaga native and former journalist now lives in New Hampshire and has published several books about his travels. His talk on Saturday, May 16, will focus on “The Nepal Chronicles,” which recounts the trip with his Nepalese-born wife, Meenakshi, to their wedding in Kathmandu and their honeymoon visiting Mount Everest base camp and trekking unguided through the Himalayas.

“When you go to a bookstore and look on the shelf, there are a lot of books about Mount Everest, but there’s very few books there about the journey between Kathmandu and Everest,” Szczesny said.

That trip was his first journey not only to Asia, but also to a developing country.

“On the way there, we stopped in Hong Kong which is like the city of the future. It’s a spectacular place, and then you get on a plane and fly four hours to Kathmandu, and it’s like you stepped back in time 100 years,” he said. “It’s still a very rural and agricultural society.”

Szczesny said the traffic in Kathmandu contributed to the culture shock because the city has doubled in size during the last decade.

“Imagine in a decade Buffalo going from 300,000 to 600,000 people. Infrastructure-wise, you wouldn’t be able to handle it,” he said. “Just having to cross the street is an adventure in Kathmandu.”

One of the best parts of the trip was being able to watch the sun and the moon rise from behind Mount Everest, Szczesny said.

He said his travel experience makes him unafraid of a challenge, but the Himalayas was a grand, epic trek because he’d never seen a 20,000-foot mountain in person before going to Nepal.

Being from a culture of capitalism, Szczesny said it’s important to get out of the box and remember that we aren’t alone.

“In this country, I think oftentimes we get stuck having an American attitude. There’s food, society and a way of doing things that’s much much older than ours,” he said. “I think traveling makes you a better person, more empathetic and compassionate, and gives you a larger picture of the world and of yourself.”

The recent devastating earthquakes in Nepal have changed how Szczesny speaks about the country, not just because of his family who still lives there, but also the places and landmarks he once visited and talked about are now gone.

“This is a 2,000-year-old country that has never been colonized or occupied and has an identity that’s grounded in its people, its architecture and its cities. I think its identity was shaken to the core in this earthquake,” he said.

“We’re going to have to talk about what’s next. What does this mean for the country? What does it mean for the subcontinent? How can we help?” Szczesny said. “It’s so dangerous when a big tragedy like this happens like New Orleans or Haiti and we all pay attention to it for a week or two and then it goes away.”

Szczesny said he hopes that talking about Nepal’s recovery will help keep the country in people’s thoughts and he is very excited to come back and reunite with friends and family to share his stories.

The Clarence Public Library will host an author reading by Szczesny at 3 p.m. Saturday, May 16, at 3 Town Place, Clarence. For more information, visit danszczesny.wordpress.com.

email: mbest@beenews.com
</text>