<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/south-asia/Earthquake-shakes-Nepal-again-people-spend-night-in-open/articleshow/47256232.cms
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Earthquake shakes Nepal again, people spend night in open
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU/PATNA: Death and destruction revisited Nepal and Bihar on Tuesday when a powerful 7.3- magnitude earthquake violently shook the landmass on either side of Mount Everest, stretching to Lhasa isthe north and Dhaka in the south.It came 17 days after a 7.9-magnitude earthquake devastated large swathes of Nepal and parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, the Himalayan nation's closest neighbours. Until now, 8,034 people have been reported dead as a result of the first temblor in Nepal, which has just begun rebuilding from the ruins.Preliminary reports said Tuesday's quake killed 57 people in Nepal while more than 1,100 were injured. The toll may go up, with massive devastation being reported from remote areas close to Tibet.In Patna, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said, "We have received reports of the death of 15 people, six of which have been confirmed." Large-scale destruction has been reported from Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, East and West Champaran, Araria, Supaul, Sheohar, Purnia, Siwan and Patna.The US Geological Survey said the 7.3-earthquake, which shook Nepal at 12.50pm (local time) was epicentred at 18km from Kodari, a rural settlement close 80km east of Kathmandu and close to Tibet. There were at least five major aftershocks, one of which had its epicentre at Ramechhap, further east of Kodari.In Kathmandu, which bore the brunt of the April 25 earthquake, people rushed out of their homes into open spaces and streets. They held each other as they ran for safety, crying and making desperate calls to their near ones. On many roads, people stopped their vehicles midway to run for cover.Fear gripped Nepal's Parliament too. Members fled as the building shook when Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist Leninist) representative Vishnu Poudel was speaking on the rehabilitation of the survivors of the earlier earthquake."It was very scary. The ground shook violently," Reena Shrestha told TOI. Her house at Teku in Kathmandu had developed cracks at many places on April 25. "This time the cracks have widened," she said. Her father-in-law, Janakman, who had survived the 1934 earthquake that was stronger than the last two ones, too, was out in the lawn."Most of the damage has taken place in Sindhupalchowk and Dolakha districts," said Laxmi Prasad Dhakal, Nepal's home ministry spokesperson. Kodari is located in Sindhupalchowk , where the maximum deaths took place in last month's earthquake.Reports said houses and shops had collapsed in Charikot and Sunkhani (both in Dolakha ), Chautara (Sindhupalchowk ) and Salleri and Namche (Solokhumbhu district), which lies at the foot of Everest. Incidents of house and wall collapse were reported from Sallaghari in Bhaktapur, an ancient city 10km east of Kathmandu, Teku and Sitapaila in the Nepalese capital. The serial tremors triggered landslides at three places in Sindhupalchowk, through which the Araniko Rajmarg connecting Kathmandu with Tibet passes.Reports said the impact of the earthquake was felt in Tibet's Jilong and Zhangmu regions as well as Lhasa. In the April 25 earthquake, around 25 people had died on the Tibetan side of the border, where Chinese doctors had treated many injured Nepalese.After an emergency meeting, Nepal's Prime Minister Sushil Koirala told the media, "We must maintain our calm and face the disaster together." Home minister Bamdev Gautam added, "Twenty districts have been hit this time."
</text>