<url>
http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/world/2015/05/11/tales-survival-emerge-makeshift-clinic/27152083/
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Survival tales emerge from mobile Nepal clinic
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Medical relief team from Delaware springs into action after arriving in the quake-ravaged country the day before.

Buy Photo Nurse practioner Jessey Jennings examines Justic Dangol, 4, at a mobile clinic in Khokana. The Delaware Medical Relief Team is providing aid in quake-striken Nepal. (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)Buy Photo

Ram Maiye appears to have made peace with her flattened home, which has forced her and her husband to live under a drenched tarp for the past two weeks with one blanket between them.

The pragmatic 39-year-old also doesn't regret her decision to indefinitely delay a much-needed tonsillectomy that costs 70,000 rupees, about $685. It has been five years since doctors first recommended the surgery, which would help Maiye swallow water without pain.

But what the mother cares about most now are her daughter's schoolbooks. They remain buried with the family's other wordly possessions after an April 25 earthquake caused this Himalayan nation to fall to its knees.

Maiye's daughter is temporarily living with her uncle, who couldn't accommodate the whole family. Room rentals are scarce in this traditional village four miles south of Kathmandu.

The family must delay rebuilding until after the rice harvest, Maiye said.

How long will it take to return to normal?

"It will be normal," she insisted through an interpreter. "But I'm still scared."

More than 50 other villagers sought treatment for their physical and emotional aches and pains at a makeshift clinic staffed by the Delaware Medical Relief Team on Monday.

Newark cardiologist Ashish Parikh encountered a woman in her thirties who complained of overall malaise before bursting into tears.

"She had genuine sadness on her face," recalled Parikh.

He vowed to donate $2,000 to help her family build a semi-permanent home, a gift for a nameless stranger who isn't likely to cross paths with him again.

Buy Photo (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)

"It's the small people helping the small people," he explained.

Less than a week earlier, three Delaware medical team doctors donated $4,500 to build 33 homes in the area.

The second wave of doctors, nurses, physician's assistants and logistics experts are in Nepal this week to treat survivors of the 7.8-magnitude temblor.

The nine-member group arrived Sunday, representing the team's largest contingent of volunteers deployed since the 2010 Haiti earthquake. Future waves of Nepal volunteers will stretch over several months.

On its second day, the group split up to maximize contact with the neediest patients. A three-person team drove eight hours north to Syabrubesi in the hard-hit Langtang Valley, while others concentrated their efforts in and around the capital city.

Joining the more remote team, Christiana physician's assistant Bernie Racey brought along jumbo bags of lollipops and glow sticks for local children. The loot had been donated by Racey's two sons.

Meanwhile, Christiana physician's assistant Patrick Phelan had a fitful night's sleep Sunday night, worried about trekking to far-flung villages that epitomized the unknown.

"Haiti was a new experience. It was a group effort," Phelan said. "This is a different case. We're going out on roads that are terrible with landslides."

During the 45-minute drive from Kathmandu to Khokana – made longer by tree trunks barricading streets – team members passed fewer than a dozen foreigners perusing market stalls.

Thamel is the tourist center of Kathmandu, crammed with storefronts hawking healing herbs, straw bongos and North Face knockoffs.

But the streets were missing their vibrancy and intensity, as the steady bang of hammers signaled a city slowly mending itself.

Locals wearing facemasks milled about the winding alleys, where every third storefront was closed. Brightly-colored rickshaws were parked by roadsides near shrines where pigeons came to roost. A maze of steel and wooden beams propped up collapsing walls as street dogs curled up on scrap sheet metal.

Buy Photo (Photo: DANIEL SATO/THE NEWS JOURNAL)

Buildings leaned perilously into already narrow streets, as if they were one jolt away from crumbling. A handmade sign warned "Danger" with a skull and crossbones.

At the hotel where the team is based, Mt. Annapurna Guest House, all six employees lost their homes to the quake and were camping out in empty rooms.

Owner Gitam Tuladhar pulled up an image on his phone of what appeared to be a bombed-out structure reduced to bricks and wooden beams.

"This is where my aunt is" he said, pointing to a black hole under the rubble.

The next image showed his family burning Tuladhar's aunt and her 13-year-old granddaughter in a religious ritual.

On the drive to Khokana, volunteers glimpsed toppled pagodas, sheets of plywood tied to bicycles and a tailor shop crushed like a beer can.

In one tent colony hugging the Bishumati River, a pair of soiled pants were left to dry on barbed wire.

While the team couldn't bring sophisticated scanning equipment or designer medications, nurse Deirdre Ritchie hoped their presence would plant the seed for villagers to follow up with local doctors.

"If they take the medicine and it dulls the pain, perhaps they will go see a doctor in the future who can give them a more thorough exam," she said.

Upon arriving at midday, a half dozen volunteers wearing scrubs walked 15 minutes through town to the corroded metal gates of Shree Rudrayanee Secondary School.

On the way, listless residents on stoops nodded their appreciation with a quiet "Namaste." For some, it was their first brush with medical attention since the earthquake.

At once, the volunteers set up in a side room with a mural of sun-drenched mountains and carpet that resembled Astro Turf.

WATCH A 360-DEGREE VIDEO FROM NEPAL

To bring viewers closer to the events, delawareonline is filming in full 360-degree video. In the special player below, see what it's like for the volunteers helping with earthquake relief efforts in Nepal by clicking and dragging your mouse to rotate the panorama left or right. Note, the player is only viewable on desktop or mobile web versions of this story.

They quickly converted three wooden tables into four areas for patient consults, outfitting a pharmacy from a suitcase on wheels. Two volunteers spoke Hindi to the patients while the others relied on translators.

Two hours later, 20 pairs of shoes stood at the entrance to the brick building.

Children entertained themselves with balloons made of latex gloves, while their parents presented chronic conditions unrelated to the earthquake. Through heartfelt smiles, they complained of back, leg and joint pains, which isn't surprising in a town where people carry barrel-sized bushels of wheat on their shoulders.

Most also had perfect blood pressure, a credit to a diet rich in rice, lentils and curry vegetables.

The Delaware volunteers dispensed simple, helpful advice, along with aspirin, antibiotics, Xanax and allergy medication.

A woman with severe heartburn was instructed to reduce her daily five cups of tea. A man whose right leg was severely deformed was told it was a congenital abnormality that couldn't be fixed. Another man with a scraggly beard presented symptoms consistent with tuberculosis, including coughing up blood, night sweats and dramatic weight loss.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE News Journal reporter Margie Fishman discusses Day 2 in Nepal as Delaware doctors offer post-earthquake assistance.

After more than three hours, the patients thinned out and the team closed up shop. On the walk back to the van, they watched as soldiers in the French army monitored a community watering hole and played hacky sack with children.

Quickly, a man stopped the team to present an infected wound on his ankle. Then another thrust his swollen ankle at the doctors, while a woman pointed to her jaw in discomfort and a mother revealed her son's chest covered in bites.

Giving new meaning to roadside assistance, the volunteers dug through their suitcases for the proper medicines. Before leaving, they assured the villagers that they would return with more supplies on Wednesday.

Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1bLo2IG
</text>