<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/auckland/local-news/eastern-courier/68351023/nepals-recovery-helped-by-trust
</url>

<date>
20150512
</date>

<headline>
Tony McCleanTrust helps earthquake-ravaged Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Tony McCleanTrust helps earthquake-ravaged Nepal

Supplied The Nepalese village of Garambesi was near the epicentre of the April earthquake, more than half of its buildings cannot be repaired.

A trust set up in the memory of a teacher who once lived in Nepal is making a huge difference to one of the earthquake-ravaged country's remote villages.

The Tony McClean Nepal Trust is using its connection with charity Sahodar to support the people of a village called Garambesi after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake rocked the country on Anzac Day.

The Auckland-based trust was founded by the late Tony McClean's parents, John and Jeanette, after the former Elim Christian College teacher and six students were swept away by rising floodwaters at Mangatepopo in the central North Island in 2008.

Supplied Aid delivered to the remote village of Garambesi by Sahodar and paid for by the Trust.

It was an easy decision for the trust to support the people of Garambesi, since it was already active in the area, John McClean says.

"Tony lived and worked in Nepal for a year and made a lot of connections with the locals there.

"Kiwis had given us all this money [after Tony's death], so we thought we would put it into a trust and try to carry out Tony's plan."

Jarred Williamson Howick pastor John McClean says the Tony McClean Nepal Trust is providing ongoing aid to a region in Nepal.

The plan was found by family on their son's laptop, envisaging improvements to living and working conditions for parts of Nepal.

John McClean, who is also a pastor at East View Baptist Church and an architect, says in a little over a week after the earthquake it had raised about $28,000 for aid supplies to help the village recover.

"Kiwis are so generous," the Howick resident says.

Supplied Elim College teacher Tony McClean drowned in a canyoning incident on Mangatepopo River in 2008, along with six other students.

READ MORE:

* Kiwi's video shows Nepal earthquake terror

* Nepal Earthquake: At least 250 missing after landslide

* One Kiwi dead after Nepal earthquake

* How to donate money to Nepal for earthquake aid

"They don't argue about someone's philosophy, they just get in and want to sort it out."

John McClean was in communication with contacts immediately after news of the earthquake broke.

"We sent in about US $5000 worth of aid - rice, tents or tarpaulins were most needed," he says.

About four days later the first trucks with aid had arrived.

He says the advantage of the trust's existing relationship with Sahodar is that supplies from local sources can be sent in quickly, rather than sitting around at Kathmandu Airport to be processed.

Most of the roads in the Lamjung district where Garambesi is located are dirt trekking tracks, only accessible by 4WD vehicles.

During the monsoon season access is made even more difficult, John McClean says.

The trust is staying in contact with Sahodar and is helping when it can.

A partner at the architecture firm he works at is investigating the New Zealand building code for information about earthquake resistant mud brick housing.

The trust hopes to use it to build three or four model homes to help villagers going forward.

About 80 per cent of Garambesi's buildings were damaged, with more than half irreparable.

"Most of the buildings there stood no chance with the quake. The photos show so much destruction...people are now living on the street."

The trust has been working with Sahodar since its establishment in 2009.

Some of the trust's long term work in the region has been delayed because the of quake.

That includes new tourism ventures to provide locals with employment.

They also established a small medical clinic in Garambesi, which sustained minor damage.

- Stuff
</text>