<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-3084344/Hugh-Sheridan-returns-Australia-controversial-trip-devastated-Nepal-meet-brother.html
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Hugh Sheridan returns to Australia after Nepal earthquake search for brother Zachary
</headline>

<text>
Actor Hugh Sheridan has returned home to Australia after his controversial trip to devastated Nepal to meet his brother Zachary.

The 29-year-old shared a picture of Sydney's iconic coastline on Saturday, using a poignant Ernest Hemingway quote to punctuate his feelings: 'It's good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end', before adding 'jumping back over the pacific to my home.'

The Packed To The Rafters star incited criticism after he journeyed to earthquake stricken Nepal via helicopter by Channel Seven's Sunday Night, which filmed Sheridan's reunion with his younger brother Zachary.

Scroll down for video

'Jumping back over the pacific to my home' Hugh Sheridan returns to Australia after his controversial trip to devastated Nepal to meet his brother

His brother had been in the country during the 7.8 magnitude earthquake which killed over 6000 people and left many Australian's missing.

The move was blasted and dubbed as grand-standing and TV insincerity by social media users and even Channel Seven host Andrew O'Keefe - who later backed down from his criticism.

But the opposition did not stop Sheridan from documenting his time in the country, and imploring his social media followers to donate to those affected.

'Let's get behind those who need us': Hugh Sheridan says his thoughts are still with the people of Nepal devastated by the recent earthquakes, as he spent time in Paris on Wednesday

Spreading the word: The Australian actor and singer posted a photo of an angel sculpture inside Paris' famous Sacre-Couer cathedral

He was pictured wearing a mask over his mouth as he shoveled debris in the disaster zone, and with his arms around some Nepalese children.

After leaving the country the sometimes jazz singer and saxophone player journeyed to Paris and documented his time via social media.

However, the recent devastation was firmly on his mind, especially after the second tremor which struck the already damaged country.

Helping out: Hugh's trip to Nepal to reunite with his brother - funded by Channel 7 - was criticised by some, but the former Packed To The Rafters chipped in to help while he was there

Help Nepal: Hugh said he plans to lead fundraising efforts for the country when he returns to Australia shortly

'I can't stop thinking about the second earthquake in Nepal,' he posted to Instagram on Wednesday alongside a photo of an angel sculpture inside Paris' famous Sacre-Couer cathedral.

'Thousands of homes and buildings were only just standing when I left a week ago, I can't imagine many would have made it,' he continued.

'Hoping to hear good news from the many people I met there and the workers who are still volunteering. I will be home for some fundraising in Australia very soon, let's get behind those who need us. #nepalneedsus #speaklove'.
</text>