<url>
http://china.org.cn/world/Off_the_Wire/2015-05/16/content_35585352.htm
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Chinese envoy calls for sustained international support in Nepal recovery
</headline>

<text>
You are here: Home

视频播放位置 下载安装Flash播放器

Chinese representative to the United Nations on Friday called for sustained international support and assistance for disaster relief and recovery in Nepal.

"As a least developed country and a landlocked developing country, Nepal is in urgent need of sustained international support and assistance for disaster relief, rehabilitation, post- disaster reconstruction and long-term development," said Liu Jieyi, China's permanent representative to UN at a session of the General Assembly on Nepal held Friday.

Besides the urgent needs of the affected population, members of the international community must support the priority areas identified by the Nepalese government, such as disaster prevention, preparedness and reconstruction, help Nepal with capacity building in disaster response and ensure effective coordination of international efforts with Nepal's national endeavors, Liu said.

In terms of humanitarian aid, China has provided much-needed assistance for the Nepalese government and its people.

"Immediately after the Earthquake, President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang sent messages of condolences to their Nepalese counterparts to express the solidarity of the Chinese government and people with the Nepalese government and people, and to pledge our readiness to provide all possible help to Nepal's rescue and relief efforts," Liu said.

In addition, the Chinese international rescue team, the Chinese government medical team and the Chinese military rescue, relief and medical teams arrived in Nepal immediately after the earthquake on April 25 and started their work in search and rescue, medical treatment, epidemic prevention and control and personnel training, said Liu.

"So far, over 1,000 Chinese nationals sent by the Chinese Government, military and police are working in Nepal, performing the biggest international humanitarian rescue and relief operation outside China since the founding of the People's Republic," Liu said.

The Chinese government also provided humanitarian aid in kind.

The Chinese government and military mobilized more than 40 helicopters and airplanes to deliver 650 metric tons of tents, generators, water purification facilities, blankets and other emergency supplies to Nepal, according to Liu.

Following the strong aftershock on May 12, the Chinese government announced another batch of emergency aid totaling 13 million U.S. dollars in value. The relief goods and supplies are being prepared and will reach the disaster-stricken areas as soon as possible, Liu said.

In the days and months to come, the Chinese government will maintain close communication with the Nepalese government on the latest situation in the aftermath of the earthquakes as well as the needs for disaster relief.

"Based on the needs of the government and people of Nepal, China will provide all kinds of assistance within its means in such areas as medical treatment, epidemic prevention and control, temporary shelter for the displaced people and post-disaster reconstruction," Liu said.

The devastating earthquake on April 25 and its aftershocks have caused heavy human and economic losses to Nepal and severely damaged the country's economic and social development and infrastructure. Endite
</text>