<url>
http://vietnamnews.vn/politics-laws/270391/global-summit-focuses-on-equality-of-the-sexes.html
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Global summit focuses on equality of the sexes
</headline>

<text>
At the opening ceremony, Viet Nam's Vice State President, Nguyen Thi Doan (right) was presented with a Global Women's Leadership award for her efforts to raise the role of women and her contributions to connecting Vietnamese female entrepreneurs with those around the world. — VNA/VNS Photo Thong Nhat



SAO PAULO (VNS) — Viet Nam's Vice State President, Nguyen Thi Doan, highlighted the country's steps towards ensuring gender equality and promoting female creativity at the opening of the 25th Global Summit of Women in Sao Paulo, Brazil on Thursday.

Doan said Vietnamese women contributed to the country's economic development, particularly in economic restructuring.

She also spoke of the challenges facing global women and the importance of strengthening gender equality policies and strategies.

Doan called on the summit to support Nepalese women affected by the two recent earthquakes.

She said the Vietnamese delegation to the summit would donate US$10,000 to Nepalese women.

At the opening ceremony, Doan was presented with a Global Women's Leadership award for her efforts to raise the role of women and her contributions to connecting Vietnamese female entrepreneurs with those around the world.

Established in 1990, the Global Summit of Women is held annually to boost female participation in and contributions to global socio-economic development, especially in business.

This year's three-day event has drawn nearly 1,000 delegates from 63 nations.

The Vietnamese Vice-President also met Chairman of the Communist Party of Brazil, Renato Rabelo.

She said the Communist Party of Viet Nam wished to intensify ties with the Brazilian party to develop and deepen the partnership.

She thanked the Brazilian people for supporting Viet Nam, adding that Brazil was its largest trade partner in Latin America.

The host said Brazil considered Viet Nam an important partner in the Asia-Pacific region and hoped for strengthened collaboration.

Both sides exchanged opinions on regional and international issues of mutual concern.

Chairman Renato Rabelo supported Viet Nam's stance of settling disputes through peaceful negotiations and in accordance with international law, especially the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.

The Vietnamese official also met the Mayor of Sao Paulo, Fernando Haddad, saying Vietnam wanted to enhance its ties with the city.

The mayor said his city wanted to strengthen ties in economics, trade, investment, culture and science-technology.

He said he would visit Viet Nam to speed up the implementation of these targets. — VNS
</text>