<url>
http://kdvr.com/2015/05/15/denver-man-returns-home-after-taking-food-and-supplies-to-earthquake-victims-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Man returns to Denver after taking food and supplies to earthquake victims in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

DENVER -- Even if a picture is worth a thousand words, there may never be enough of them to describe the destruction from the recent earthquake in Nepal.

"Whatever you're seeing in those pictures, it's ten times worse," said Denver resident Chris Williamson, who just returned from Nepal.

Williamson responded to some of the worst disasters in the world during his career working for a private disaster management company but he recently moved into the nonprofit world, starting a local charity called Dreambuilders Inc.

Williamson says Dreambuilders is focused on providing rapid response and aid to remote areas of the world in need of help. He traveled to Nepal by himself, organizing a local team of volunteers who helped international aid organizations with everything from delivering aid to search and rescue.

"Honestly I just started checking on people because there were a lot of people who were in buildings that had collapsed,” Williamson said. “They were injured and honestly really needed medical aid."

FOX31 Denver caught up with Williamson just before he left for his trip. He was picking up medical supply bags from Project C.U.R.E., another nonprofit headquartered in Colorado. They were bags he made sure ended up in the right hands.

"I know for a fact that two of those bags went with a Canadian DART team,” Williamson said. "And they took them back in to pick up a five-year-old child that's probably alive because of them today."

After the first few days, Williamson and his team traveled beyond the major cities and into towns where many buildings simply crumbled down the hillside. His team divided massive bags of food into smaller portions, delivering 20,000 bags, while some aid trucks were fending off raids.

"You got 300 people, you got 20 sacks of rice, they're fighting for food because they don't know if they're going to get it,” Williamson said. “(If) you break that down, and you give people sacks of food for five days everybody knows they're going to get food. They're happy."

And keeping people happy was their main mission, starting with children.

"As soon as you can get those kids to smile and laugh it gets a lot better," Williamson said.

Williamson says shelter, food and water are still the items of most critical need in Nepal, especially with the monsoon season approaching.

Though he is now back in Denver, Williamson says Dreambuilders volunteers are still working in Nepal and he will return in a couple weeks. Dreambuilders is also organizing a shipment of aid to the country.

Visit Dreambuilders Inc. website for more information.
</text>