<url>
http://www.kentonline.co.uk/weald/news/kent-doctor-saves-25-lives-37041/
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Kent doctor Rachel Tullet, from Cranbrook, saved lives after Nepal earthquake triggered Everest avalanche
</headline>

<text>
A Kent doctor risked her own life to save 25 others after an avalanche was triggered by a devastating earthquake.

Dr Rachel Tullet, from Cranbrook, was stationed at Everest base camp when the quake - with a magnitude of 7.8 - struck Nepal.

The natural disaster caused a wave of snow, ice and rock to plough into the meeting point for climbers.

Despite being injured herself, Dr Tullet rushed to the aid of those seriously injured and life-threatening conditions.

In a message posted by Dr Tullet and her colleague, Dr Megan Walmsley, they said: "We were looking after a medical patient in our ER tent, when the earthquake struck.

"Seconds later we heard a massive avalanche start and were concerned it was going to be on the icefall where the climbers were.

"Megan stayed with the patient, while Rachel ran up the slope outside to locate the avalanche - and saw the giant wave rushing towards base camp from the Pumori side.

"In the seconds that followed, our campsite was obliterated by the blast wave."

Dr Tullet, 34, was caught in the blast and was thrown over a ridge onto some rocks. It's understood she later stitched her own leg without anaesthetic.

Their camp was severely damaged with medical supplies scattered across the floor but they pressed on with helping the injured climbers.

They added: "The aftermath of the blast wave through the camp we will never ever forget.

"But the response we saw after this disaster at Everest Base Camp was truly inspirational and has left us full of gratitude for the courage and skill of our mountain community in a time of crisis.

"We share the sorrow of the loss of our colleagues and friends, and hope that some comfort will be found in knowing that every possible effort were made to care for all, after this terrible event.

"We both feel incredibly lucky to have survived, and to be able to work."

In total, the team treated over 80 casualties, including 25 people in life-threatening conditions.

At least 17 people died in the avalanche on April 25.

More than 7,800 people were killed in the earthquake on the same day, including 23-year-old Matt Carapiet, from Bearsted.

Dr Tullet, who is a specialist in emergency and wilderness medicine, returned to her home in New Zealand last Friday.

The medical clinic where she was based is part of a project of the Himalayan Rescue Association.

The organisation is made up of altitude-experienced healthcare workers who offer support to the climbing community.

For more details about the charity visit www.everester.org.
</text>