<url>
http://www.ktul.com/story/29079784/tulsa-doctors-return-from-nepal-mission
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Tulsa Doctors Return from Nepal Mission
</headline>

<text>
TULSA -- A group of 11 doctors returned from their medical mission to Nepal Friday evening.

The volunteers were with In His Image International, a part of the St. John Health System, and spent a week in Nepal assisting victims of the recent earthquakes in the Himalayan nation.

"We just offered a small ministry of presence there to the people, just offering hope, and what little we could offer with the medical side," Jennifer Jung said.

The team set up a clinic and helped treat patients with injuries from the disaster. Camping out at a destroyed school building, they were in touch with the family living next door, consoling a father who was broken by the loss of one of his daughters and health problems that developed after the quake. The group took cover with the family when aftershocks rolled through the Nepalese countryside, recalling the scary moments when it happened, admitting that they knew that was part of the risk but had to look past the danger to fulfill their mission.

"There is no safety," Chase Ledbetter said. "... Bad things happen in the world and you can't control them. So if you're going to let things like that deter you, you're not going to be able to help anyone, you're not going to be able to offer help in situations like this."

They were the second team with In His Image to visit quake survivors in Nepal -- another group had gone immediately after the first earthquake hit in April.

The doctors say now, weeks after the disaster, hospitals in Nepal need support with long-term medical care, but moving forward, survivors need help finding longer-term shelter before monsoon season comes.

"The bigger thing now is housing and safety and safe water sources," Erin Morgan said. "Because like any disaster as we saw in Haiti and other places like that, you can develop water-borne illnesses and communicable illnesses where everybody's living together. So that's a lot of what we were seeing."

The doctors don't know when another group might be sent to Nepal, but want to remind people in Tulsa that donations to relief efforts are helpful, especially toward housing, rebuilding and short-term aid like food supplies.

"There's been a lot of communities and even other countries contributing," Jung said. "A lot is needed. It's going to take a while to rebuild."

If you want to donate to the Nepal missions by In His Image, visit www.inhisimageinternational.org or mail a check payable to In His Image Int'l to PO Box 1191, Tulsa, OK 74101.
</text>