<url>
http://www.vishwagujarat.com/india/coal-india-employees-donate-rs-5-crore-to-pms-relief-fund/
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Coal India employees donate Rs.5 crore to PM's relief fund – Vishwagujarat
</headline>

<text>
Employees and workmen of the world’s largest coal miner, Coal India Limited (CIL), on Friday contributed Rs.5 crore to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for quake ravaged Nepal and some of the Indian states.

CIL chairman Sutirtha Bhattacharya handed over a cheque to union Coal Minister Piyush Goyal here.

“The contribution by the workmen and the employees shows the compassion and the heart of the company. It’s unfortunate what has happened in Nepal and to some extent in Bihar. The second quake is really very disturbing.

“I am sure this fund will go a long way in making people come out of their distress although the disaster is so bad that nothing can rally ameliorate it quickly enough,” said Goyal.

Goyal subsequently made Bhattacharya commit a contribution of Rs.6 crore to the PM relief fund.

“I would also urge the chairman and the managing director of CIL (Bhattacharya) to consider his contribution along with that of the employees to the relief fund. Can I assume that five crore will now add up to make it 10 crore,” asked Goyal to which Bhattacharya nodded in the affirmative.

“More auspicious figure is 11, so you should make it six crore and make it Rs. 11 crore and send it to the PM relief fund,” added Goyal.

Christened the CIL relief fund, under the initiative Rs.2 per month is deducted from all the employees of the Maharatna Company.

PM National Relief Fund

In pursuance of an appeal by the then Prime Minister, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru in January, 1948, the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) was established with public contributions to assist displaced persons from Pakistan.

The resources of the PMNRF are now utilized primarily to render immediate relief to families of those killed in natural calamities like floods, cyclones and earthquakes, etc. and to the victims of the major accidents and riots. Assistance from PMNRF is also rendered, to partially defray the expenses for medical treatment like heart surgeries, kidney transplantation, cancer treatment, etc.

The fund consists entirely of public contributions and does not get any budgetary support. The corpus of the fund is invested with banks in fixed deposits. Disbursements are made with the approval of the Prime Minister. PMNRF has not been constituted by the Parliament.

The fund is recognized as a Trust under the Income Tax Act and the same is managed by Prime Minister or multiple delegates for national causes. PMNRF operates from the Prime Minister’s Office, South Block, New Delhi-110011 and does not pays any license fee. PMNRF is exempt under Income Tax Act, 1961 under Section 10 and 139 for return purposes.

Prime Minister is the Chairman of PMNRF and is assisted by Officers/ Staff on honorary basis. Permanent Account Number of PMNRF is AACTP4637Q.

Type of contributions accepted in PMNRF

PMNRF accepts only voluntary donations by individuals and institutions. Contributions flowing out of budgetary sources of Government or from the balance sheets of the public sector undertakings are not accepted. At the time of natural calamity of devastating scale, Prime Minister, makes an appeal for donation to the fund.
</text>