<url>
http://lubbockonline.com/world/2015-04-26/disaster-nepal-you-need-know
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Disaster in Nepal: You need to know
</headline>

<text>
■ How bad is the damage?

It’s too early to tell, but early indications suggest the figure of nearly 1,400 people killed in four countries is likely to rise substantially in the coming days. The magnitude-7.8 quake was the worst to hit Nepal in eight decades and caused damage and fatalities in neighboring countries as well. In addition to nearly 1,400 people killed in Nepal, at least 34 were killed in India, 12 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.

The earthquake hit a heavily populated area of Nepal, including the capital, Kathmandu, and its impact spread far beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Strong aftershocks were felt an hour after the initial temblor.

Earthquake experts are preparing for high numbers in terms of deaths and damage.

Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu’s international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.

■ What happened on Mount Everest?

A devastating avalanche swept across Mount Everest after the quake, claiming at least eight lives with an unspecified number of people missing and injured.

The avalanche struck near one of the famed mountain’s most dangerous spots. It swept down between the Khumbu Icefall, known for its harsh conditions, and the base camp used by international climbing expeditions.

There were unverified reports of avalanches on other parts of the mountain. Nepalese officials said some 30 people were injured at the base camp.

Facebook postings by climbers suggested that some people may have been buried in their tents when the avalanche hit. Climbers and their support teams were leaving the base camp Saturday looking for safer locations.

More than 4,000 climbers have scaled the 29,035-foot summit since 1953, when it was first conquered by New Zealand climber Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay.

■ How prepared is Nepal to cope with the crisis?

Nepal is a relatively poor country without extensive resources despite its rich cultural heritage and spectacular mountain scenery.

It has been plagued by instability in recent years, and general strikes have recently brought chaotic scenes to Kathmandu.

Nepal’s constitution was supposed to have been written by the Constituent Assembly that was elected in 2008, following the end of a 10-year Maoist insurgency and the overthrow of the centuries-old monarchy, but the assembly was hampered by infighting and never finished its work.

The current assembly was chosen in 2013, but has faced the same problem.

— The Associated Press
</text>