<url>
https://www.dvidshub.net/news/163546/transcript-lt-gen-john-w-wissler-discusses-found-helicopter-may-15-2015
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
(transcript) Lt. Gen. John W. Wissler Discusses Found Helicopter May 15, 2015
</headline>

<text>
Photo By Sgt. Isaac Ibarra | Lt. Gen. John W. Wissler talks at a press conference about the found UH-1Y Huey that...... read more read more Photo By Sgt. Isaac Ibarra | Lt. Gen. John W. Wissler talks at a press conference about the found UH-1Y Huey that went missing after conducting casualty evacuations when Nepal was struck with a 7.3 magnitude earthquake, May 15 at Kathmandu, Nepal. The aircraft carried six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers. The U.S. troops are part of Joint Task Force 505 in Nepal conducting earthquake relief operation Sahayogi Haat. Wissler is the commanding general of III Marine Expeditionary Force. (U.S. Marine Corps Photo by Cpl. Isaac Ibarra/Released) see less | View Image Page

KATHMANDU, Nepal - This is the full transcript of Lt. Gen. John W. Wissler opening remarks during a press conference in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 15, 2015. The conference covered the details of the May 15 discovery of a UH-1Y Huey helicopter that went missing Tuesday, May 12, 2015.



“Good evening ladies and gentlemen. As was stated, I am Lt. Gen. John Wissler, commander of Joint Task Force 505. I want to thank you all for being here tonight. I’m joined tonight by Ambassador Peter Bodde the United States ambassador, by assistant secretary of state Nisha Biswal, who is here on a fact finding mission to see how we can do humanitarian assistance and disaster relief in a more effective way across the entire region. And also, with my good partner Bill Berger from the OFDA USAID and the leader of the DART team who is here in Nepal.



At this time, I can confirm that we have located the wreckage of the UH-1Y Huey helicopter that’s been missing since Tuesday the twelfth of May. Because of the nature of the wreckage, it’s unlikely that there are any survivors at this time. Our prayers are with the Marines and the Nepalese soldiers and their families. We all mourn this tragic loss of life. The aircraft was positively identified at approximately 1:15 p.m. today eigh miles north of Charikot in the Dolakha Region. The wreckage was found at approximately 11,000 feet in extremely dense forest and exceptionally rugged terrain. Our Nepalese partners originally discovered what they thought to be evidence of an aircraft mishap while they were flying patrols in this area in their helicopters. As soon as we were made aware of their first reports, we immediately diverted the U.S. helicopters that were already in the air to the grid coordinates that they had provided to us. At this time, I’m not able positively identify the cause of the mishap. I’m also unable to positively confirm the identities of any of the remains of the service members either from the U.S. or from Nepal that were onboard that aircraft.



Additionally, due to the extremely difficult terrain at the site of the mishap, below freezing temperatures and violent winds and thunder storms, I made the decision to cease the recovery efforts for this evening. We cannot afford to put U.S. or Nepalese service members at any further risk. At first light, we will resume the recovery mission. The six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers onboard the aircraft were participating in disaster relief missions following the second devastating earthquake that struck this country.



They were determined to go forward with their duties, eager to contribute to our mission and to alleviate suffering and to come to the rescue of those in need. They were courageous. They were selfless individuals dedicated to the international humanitarian aid mission here in Nepal. We are deeply saddened by the discovery of this wreckage, and we will remain dedicated to the recovery effort until every last Marine and Nepalese soldier is brought home.



We are and will continue to work closely with the government of Nepal and the Nepalese Armed Forces to identify the remains of all of the service members that were aboard the aircraft, and we will determine the cause of the mishap. We will release further details as they become available.



I want to express my gratitude to our international friends, the countries of Nepal and India who came forward and offered their support during our extensive search efforts since this aircraft went missing. We ask for continued prayers and support during this difficult time. We also ask the public to please respect the families, and allow them time as the investigation continues and the next of kin are respectively notified.



Lastly, I want to express that the United States military will remain committed to our mission here in Nepal. While we mourn the tragic passing of our service members and of the Nepalese army, we recognize that the Nepalese people have suffered a loss of thousands of their own citizens. We will continue to stand with Nepal as long as our friends need our help. The sacrifice that these Marines and Nepalese soldiers have made for their respective countries will not be forgotten. Their memories will live on through the lives they’ve touched during this disaster relief operation and in their previous service to their countries."



Full video can be found at: https://www.dvidshub.net/video/404448/lt-gen-john-wissler-talks-about-found-huey-press-conference
</text>