<url>
http://www.dailytelegraph.com.au/newslocal/inner-west/nepal-everest-trekker-will-always-be-grateful-to-the-sherpas-who-stood-by-him-and-fellow-australians-when-the-first-earthquake-struck/story-fngr8h4f-1227357318185?nk=777531a6abf8bdbb187e2ed2b3e52f42
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake everest base camp trek
</headline>

<text>
SNOW was falling lightly at Khumjung sherpa village in Nepal when Australian trekker Richard Lee spun the prayer wheel outside a Buddhist monastery.

It was a quiet moment on Anzac Day, one of many peaceful occasions Richard had enjoyed as he and his two friends Nicola Giuliano and Caroline Steel made their way up the mountain.

They were headed to Everest base camp on a World Expeditions tour with about 10 other western trekkers and the equivalent number of Nepalese guides and cooks.

Richard, an Annadale resident, Caroline from Balmain and Nicola from Bondi Junction had met some years earlier on Mount Kilimanjaro and become close friends.

They had trained hard for this trip of a lifetime, but nothing could have prepared them for what was about to happen.

media_camera Nicola Giuliano, Richard Lee and Caroline Steel.

As the wheel stopped spinning, Richard saw monks running from the monastery, waving their hands and shouting.

“I immediately knew something was wrong,” he said.

Suddenly the force of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit him too.

“The whole ground started to sway and shake,” he said. “It was literally moving. Around me buildings started to crack and fall down. Children were crying.”

In a matter of seconds they were facing a situation the Nepalese had not experienced for 80 years.

FIVE DOCK TO GET A FACELIFT

ZUMBO HASN’T FORGOTTEN HIS BALMAIN ROOTS

media_camera Snow falls lightly at Khumjung Village. Picture: Richard Lee.

“We were frozen on the spot when Sonam Lama, our World Expedition team leader, told us we needed to get to open ground and run.”

As they followed him down a narrow path they saw buildings collapsing around them, the elderly being carried on people’s backs and people bleeding.

Reaching a clearing, the three friends hugged and held each other and waited for the others to join them.

They had walked up to Khumjung that morning from their camp at Namche Bazar in order to acclimatise for several hours at the higher 3800m elevation before going back downhill again where the cooks and other guides remained. The plan was to continue trekking towards base camp the next day.

No one knew what to do next.

“We knew it was catastrophic,” Richard said. “All you think about is your family. “

media_camera A destroyed home 80kms outside of Kathmandu.

Eventually Mick the lead sherpa guide led the party down the mountain while trying to call his own family at the same time.

“He showed no hysteria or drama, just a quiet resolve to get on with the job,” Richard said.

After several days of trying to get in touch Mick discovered his home had been reduced to rubble.

But he stayed on with the group to make sure the tourists were safe.

“It was incredible that Mick and the other guides stood by us as their own livelihood was destroyed. From the start they had a genuine selfless ethic towards our welfare.”

Initially the trekkers thought a chopper might get them out of the area but as the enormity of the devastation started to sink in they realised the injured and dead would be rightly rescued first.

They waited for 72 hours further up the mountain at a Lodge in Namche Bazar before walking back down to Lukla Airport where they had started their adventure.

At this higher elevation it was possible to get wifi which meant loved ones could be contacted.

“I could get a message to my partner Johnny who was able to tell me more about what had happened and pass on messages to my close friends and family.

media_camera A local Nepalese man sits above Namche sherpa village.

Regular communication with the outside world lifted the groups’ spirits and gave them a resolve to make it back safely.

“We felt physically isolated but emotionally connected to our loved ones,” Richard said.

A phone call from the Australian Embassy’s Steve Rowe, based in Kathmandu, promising to look after their welfare brought certainty and comfort to the group. Calls from Richard’s insurance company Cover More also helped.

After two days of trekking, they arrived back at Lukla Airport where they had started their journey.

The night before the group said goodbye to their guides, the 12 Sherpas sang traditional Nepalese songs to the travellers. In return, the Australians sang Waltzing Matlida.

“It was moving. We had been through alot together,” Richard said.

He and the group hope to begin a fundraising effort to help Mick rebuild his home and the rebuild of Namche Bazar.

After this interview took place, another 7.2 magnitude earthquake shook Nepal. The epicentre was close to Namche Bazar, the village where the group stayed after the first earthquake struck.

Richard has asked anyone wishing to donate to go through unicef.org.au

“The financial situation of the Sherpas is desparate,” he said. “Every dollar raised will help rehouse and rebuild their timeless way of life.”

media_camera The spectacular, ice-capped Nepal Himalayan mountain ranges from the road to Syangboche above Namche Bazaar. Picture: Amanda Hodge
</text>