<url>
http://www.ocregister.com/articles/marines-662026-helicopter-marine.html
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
Nepal says it has found all 8 bodies from U.S. Marine helicopter that crashed
</headline>

<text>
The bodies of all eight people on board the Camp Pendleton-based Marine helicopter that disappeared this week during a relief mission in earthquake-hit Nepal have been recovered, Nepal’s army said Saturday.

The wreckage was found Friday and the first three bodies retrieved the same day by Nepalese and U.S. military personnel from the crash site in the mountains northeast of capital Kathmandu. The Nepalese army said in a statement Saturday that the remaining five bodies were also recovered.

U.S. Army Maj. David Eastburn, spokesman for the U.S. Pacific Command, said late Friday that the reports are unconfirmed.

There were six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese soldiers on board the UH-1Y Huey, with a call sign of Vengeance 01, which was found three days after communication with it was lost Tuesday. Its mission, and that of the Marines aboard, was to supply relief in Charikot, a Himalayan town severely struck by a strong earthquake in Nepal, the second devastating quake in recent weeks in the country.

Lt. Gen. John Wissler, commander of the Marine-led joint task force, told reporters in Kathmandu on Friday that his team could not immediately identify the cause of the crash or identify the bodies found.

He described the crash as “severe,” and said the recovery team at the site encountered extreme weather and difficult terrain.

Military officials said the names of the Marines will not be released for at least 24 hours after all next of kin are advised. Some media reports Friday offered unconfirmed identities of some Marines who may have been aboard the doomed copter.

“Because of the nature of the wreck, it is unlikely there are any survivors,” said Eastburn. The command, consisting of all services, responds to numerous humanitarian crisis and disaster areas.

Four pararescuemen and one combat rescue officer searched the ground Friday.

Two UH-1Y Hueys with HMLA 469 and one MV-22 Osprey with Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262 assisted with the mission.

The UH-1Y Huey disappeared about 9:15 a.m. Pacific time Tuesday. The aircraft and its crew were delivering food, water and plastic sheeting for temporary shelters for those affected by the quakes. The crew also helped evacuate casualties to Kathmandu.

The discovery of the wreckage followed days of intense search involving U.S. and Nepalese aircraft and even U.S. satellites.

The U.S. relief mission was deployed soon after a magnitude 7.8 quake hit April 25, killing more than 8,200 people.

It was followed by a magnitude 7.3 quake Tuesday that killed 117 people and injured 2,800.

The helicopter was with the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing and part of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469. The squadron was training in the Philippines when it was sent for the relief effort.

“The Marines are the leading edge because we are forward deployed, always ready, relevant and responsive,” said Lt. Gen John Toolan, the commanding general of Marine Corps Forces Pacific. “For Nepal we had elements of 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force responding within hours to organize our assessment teams, and provide assets to the crisis area.”

Toolan said airfield studies and route analysis had been done a year ago knowing an earthquake was likely. The reconnaissance effort is done in many places in the world to ensure Marines have the information to respond effectively.

“Our Marines are performing a very dangerous job every day in this region,” he said. “The challenges we accept to include flying at extreme altitudes take tremendous courage, skill and know-how. They are our heroes.”

“Together we mourn as our nation and the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal have lost eight courageous men who put the needs of others ahead of their own,” said Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III in a statement for the U.S. Pacific Command.

The helicopter was adopted by the Heritage of San Clemente Foundation and The Marine Monument Park Semper Fi.

“We express our condolences to San Clemente’s adopted unit, HMLA 469, and their families on this tragic loss,” said Wayne Eggleston, the foundation’s director and former mayor of San Clemente.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

Contact the writer: 714-796-2254 or eritchie@ocregister.com or Twitter:@lagunaini
</text>