<url>
http://edition.cnn.com/2015/05/15/world/nepal-maya-disabled-girl/
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
In Nepal: A 10-year-old's scary future after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN) Hours before a second massive earthquake rocked Nepal, Bhim Bahadur Gurung planned to embark on an arduous trek back to his village in Gorkha, the district in Nepal that was hardest hit by the first quake.

In late April, Gurung found himself in the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, not by choice but out of desperation. The journey here was difficult; returning home was going to be even more so.

He knew he would have to carry his daughter Maya back home. The spry 10-year-old he knew went away the day the earth shook.

Gurung, like millions of other Nepalis who survived, says he feels tremendously lucky that none of his loved ones died. Yet, he knows that a few minutes of the earth's violent rattling has forever altered his family's life trajectory. The future, already filled with so many uncertainties for this struggling rural family, turned ominous after the quake.

Maya was frightened and in severe pain when I first met her. For the most part, she lay statue-still on Bed 41 of the female surgical unit in a Kathmandu hospital, where even the eye and gynecology wards are being used to treat the injured. Once in a while she touched her left leg and winced in pain, hot tears streaming down her dust-caked face.

JUST WATCHED Survivors to CNN: We are afraid to go inside Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Survivors to CNN: We are afraid to go inside 02:50

On my second visit a few days later, I bring her Cadbury's chocolate. She eats just one piece and saves the rest for later.

I watch her as I speak with her father and can tell she understands what has happened. Like so many children in this part of the world, she has in some ways been robbed of childhood innocence by the hardscrabble nature of her life circumstances.

Despite what anyone might say to comfort her, Maya is savvy enough to realize that things will never be the same; that she must live a life scarred by disaster.

'I tried to dodge the rocks'

That morning, Maya Gurung was another ordinary girl in Kasi Gaon, a poor village in one of the poorest nations in Asia.

It was a Saturday, and Maya had no school. Still, she did her chores, including a 20-minute climb up the mountain to fetch drinking water for her family. She did this three times every day. There is no indoor plumbing at her father's house; there's no source for drinking water nearby.

On weekdays, Maya fetched water and then went off to school, though she didn't like studying much. She is in the fifth grade, but no one in her family encouraged her to learn. She was valued more for helping around the house. She helped her mother with cooking, washing dishes and collecting wood and kindling for the stove. She often watched over her 3-month-old brother when her mother needed relief.

At 10, Maya, the second youngest of six siblings, was invaluable to her parents, who live off the land growing barley and maize. Their lives were not easy in Gorkha District.

On April 25, she set off her with uncle Dami Gurung and his daughter Manisha, 5, to graze their cattle. They had to navigate to lower ground to find fields for the cows and drifted about two hours away from Maya's home.

Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police officers clear debris from Durbar Square in Kathmandu on Sunday, May 3. A magnitude-7.8 earthquake centered less than 50 miles from Kathmandu rocked Nepal with devastating force Saturday, April 25. The earthquake and its aftershocks have turned one of the world's most scenic regions into a panorama of devastation, killing and injuring thousands. Hide Caption 1 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured Nepalese woman is carried by villagers toward an Indian army helicopter to be airlifted from Philim village in Gorkha district in Nepal on May 3. Hide Caption 2 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Tsayana family warm themselves next to a fire outside their damaged house on May 3 in Bhaktapur, Nepal. Hide Caption 3 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman receives comfort during the funeral of her mother, a victim of Nepal's deadly earthquake, on Friday, May 1, in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 4 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hindu priests perform rituals during the cremations of victims at the Pashupatinath Temple on the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu on May 1. Hide Caption 5 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People await aid from an Indian army helicopter in front of damaged homes in Kulgaun, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 6 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman gets carried on a stretcher at Kathmandu's airport after being evacuated from Melamchi, Nepal, on May 1. Hide Caption 7 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A member of the Los Angeles County Fire Department guides his sniffing dog through a collapsed building in Kathmandu on Thursday, April 30. Hide Caption 8 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A teenage boy gets rushed to a hospital April 30 after being rescued from the debris of a building in Kathmandu days after the earthquake. Hide Caption 9 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man is freed from the ruins of a hotel by French rescuers in the Gangabu area of Kathmandu on Tuesday, April 28. Reuters identified the man as Rishi Khanal. Hide Caption 10 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese military police search through rubble outside Kathmandu on April 28. Hide Caption 11 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest April 28 in a temporary housing camp in Kathmandu. Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the capital. Hide Caption 12 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A family collects belongings from their home in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Monday, April 27. Hide Caption 13 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Damaged buildings lean to the side in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 14 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Hide Caption 15 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of the Nepalese army retrieve bodies from a collapsed building in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 16 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded woman to a helicopter as they evacuate people from Trishuli Bazar, Nepal, on April 27. Hide Caption 17 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People charge their cell phones in an open area in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 18 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency personnel evacuate an injured man to a waiting helicopter in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 19 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aerial view of the devastation in Kathmandu on April 27. The destruction in Nepal's capital is stark: revered temples reduced to rubble, people buried in the wreckage of their homes, hospitals short on medical supplies overflowing with patients. Hide Caption 20 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents rescue items from the debris of houses damaged in the quake in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 21 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An aervial view shows ruined buildings in Trishuli Bazar on April 27. Hide Caption 22 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman prays at a ruined temple in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 23 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People rest in temporary shelters in Kathmandu on April 27. Hide Caption 24 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Residents cycle over damaged roads on the outskirts of Kathmandu on Sunday, April 26. Hide Caption 25 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Four-month-old Sonit Awal is held up by Nepalese army soldiers after being rescued from the rubble of his house in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on April 26. Hide Caption 26 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper that provided photographs of the baby's rescue says the Nepalese army initially left the site, thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the infant's cries were heard, soldiers came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 27 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The newspaper adds the Nepalese Army had initially failed to rescue the baby and left the site thinking the baby had not survived. Hours later when the baby's cries were heard the army came back and rescued him. Hide Caption 28 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A woman cries after identifying the body of a relative in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 29 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Men clear debris in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 30 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A truck evacuates residents from Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 31 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Buddha statue is surrounded by debris on April 26 from a collapsed temple in the UNESCO world heritage site of Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 32 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman is helped to her home after being treated for her injuries in Bhaktapur on April 26. Hide Caption 33 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Family members break down on April 26 during the cremation of a loved one killed in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 34 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Smoke from funeral pyres fills the air at the Pashupatinath temple on the banks of Bagmati River in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 35 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Members of India's National Disaster Response Force look for survivors in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 36 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers remove debris on April 26 as they search for victims in Bhaktapur. Hide Caption 37 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People look at the debris of one of the oldest temples in Kathmandu on April 26. Hide Caption 38 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People sleep on a street in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Saturday, April 25. A seemingly endless series of aftershocks continued to roil the area, further traumatizing survivors. Hide Caption 39 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Civilian rescuers carry a person on a stretcher in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 40 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a man from the rubble in Kathmandu on April 25. Cheers rose from the piles when people were found alive -- but mostly bodies turned up. Hide Caption 41 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Pedestrians walk past collapsed buildings in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 42 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Azim Afif, of the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia climbing team, provided this photo of their Mount Everest base camp after it was ravaged by an avalanche triggered by the earthquake on April 25. All of Afif's five-member team survived. Hide Caption 43 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers clear rubble in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 44 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A temple on Hanumandhoka Durbar Square lies in ruins after an earthquake in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 45 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Dharahara, a tower dating back to 1832 that rose more than 60 meters (200 feet) and provided breathtaking views of Kathmandu and the surrounding Himalayas, collapsed in the earthquake on April 25. Hide Caption 46 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The hand of a statue is seen under debris in Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 47 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Basantapur Durbar Square on April 25. Hide Caption 48 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim of Nepal's earthquake lies in the debris of Dharahara after it collapsed on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal. Hide Caption 49 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 50 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers carry a body recovered from the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 51 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A victim's body is seen in the debris of the collapsed Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 52 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers carry a victim from Dharahara after the tower in Kathmandu collapsed on April 25. Hide Caption 53 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 54 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal A man walks past a collapsed temple at Basantapur Durbar Square. Hide Caption 55 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Rescue workers clear debris in Kathmandu while searching for survivors. Hide Caption 56 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People huddle together outside a hospital in Kathmandu. Eyewitnesses said residents were scared and waiting for aftershocks to end. Hide Caption 57 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 58 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Injured people receive treatment in Kathmandu. A CNN reporter said medics were focused on treating the most severely injured. Hide Caption 59 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal Emergency rescue workers search for survivors in the debris of Dharahara on April 25. Hide Caption 60 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside a hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Hide Caption 61 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal People help with rescue efforts at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Hide Caption 62 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal An injured child receives treatment outside Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu on April 25. Residents, after a relentless series of aftershocks, have been remaining outdoors. Hide Caption 63 of 64 Photos: Powerful earthquake hits Nepal The rubble of collapsed walls fills a street in Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Kathmandu, on April 25. Hide Caption 64 of 64

At 11:56 a.m., when the ground began shaking, Dami grabbed the two girls and tried to seek shelter from rocks and boulders that came hurtling toward them down the hills.

"I tried to dodge the rocks," he says, "but I could not save her."

A boulder hit them, and they all sustained severe injuries. Maya's was the worst. Her left leg was crushed.

Manisha was howling. Maya was screaming with pain.

The family's village was devastated, says Maya's father. Gorkha was one of two districts hardest-hit, according to aid organizations that have surveyed the damage. There were few medical facilities equipped to treat the injured, and it took time for helicopters to maneuver into hilly and harsh terrain.

Gurung tries to tell me what his village looked like after the quake. He pauses and wraps his head in his hands.

"I just can't describe things. I have no words," he says.

Almost every house sustained damage, including his. He was, as usual, working in the fields that day and ran home once the earth stopped moving. He saw the destruction around him, but all he cared about at that moment was finding his daughter. He went from house to house, frantic.

When he finally found his brother and daughter, he took them to a village clinic. But there was little they could do. Maya winced in pain, her leg wrapped in rags. She waited like this for more than a day before a Nepalese military helicopter airlifted her out.

Gurung hopped aboard the chopper with his daughter. But when it stopped to pick up more people, the military ordered him off to make room for the injured.

He watched the helicopter rise into the sky, carrying his daughter many miles to Kathmandu. He was thankful that someone would save Maya, but he couldn't stand the thought of his child being alone. He was sure she would be shivering in fear. He just wanted to hold his little girl and tell her everything would be alright.

He didn't sleep all night, he says. And when the sun rose, he set off to find her.

He began the long trek by foot. He hitchhiked Jeep rides and then boarded a bus with his brother Dami, who also needed treatment for his leg injuries.

Kathmandu is a congested city of millions. Gurung was directed to Tribhuban University Teaching Hospital, where many earthquake victims were receiving free or low-cost care.

Dami and his daughter Manisha checked into the hospital for care. It was only then that they saw Maya's name in the registration ledger.

JUST WATCHED Relief efforts underway after second quake hits Nepal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Relief efforts underway after second quake hits Nepal 05:52

On Wednesday afternoon, four days after the quake, Gurung discovered his daughter. She was scared, tears streaming down her face; a green woolen blanket covered her from the waist down. Maya grabbed her father tight. When he pulled back to stand up straight, she threw her arms about him and drew him close again.

The scene was so emotional that doctors and nurses clicked their cell phone cameras to capture the reunion.

But then Gurung's eyes fell on his daughter's left leg. His heart started beating hard. All he saw was a thick bandage with the Nepalese date scribbled on it. Doctors were forced to amputate from her shin down.

He knew instantly what this meant.

"It couldn't be saved," Dr. Prem Raj Sigdel told him. "She is stable now, but she doesn't really realize what her life conditions will be. It will be very difficult for her. You and I can imagine it, but maybe she can't."

'Papa, papa, don't leave me'

There's very little to do to keep busy at the hospital. The only joy is when the cell phone rings.

Maya grabs it before her father can get to it. It's her brother. He's only a year older and is close to Maya.

"How is everyone?" she asks. "Tell them I will come home soon. I will do all my chores again. Until then, look after the house."

She says she misses her friends, Priti, Sunita and Michi. The four girls walk 50 minutes to school together every day.

Gurung tends to his daughter's needs. He feeds her a mixture of rice and lentils; gives her a bed pan when she has to urinate and then goes to empty it.

"Papa, papa," Maya cries. "Don't leave me."

When he returns, she makes him rub her left arm, where a needle has been inserted for a blood transfusion. Maya lost a lot of blood and her hemoglobin levels are too low.

I talk to her about her life back home.

Maya's father tries to feed her lentils and rice, but in the days after the amputation she had little appetite and cried all the time.

I imagine it as being a hard one; she has known nothing else. I promise to come back and see her in a few days and ask her if I can bring her anything besides chocolate.

"Mobile," she responds.

She wants her own phone so she can call her mother and brother every day. She misses them.

"She wants to go home," Gurung tells me. "She has been crying for her mother. My wife wants to come here, but it's very difficult. She has to look after the baby and besides, the journey is long."

And now, many of the roads are blocked by landslides.

An unknown future

The last time I see Maya, her face lights up when I enter the room. It has been nearly two weeks since the earthquake.

"Namaste!" she says from her bed, joining her hands together in a traditional Hindu greeting.

The nurses have bathed her, changed the dressing on her leg and replaced the printed cotton dress she had been wearing since she was hurt with a fresh striped T-shirt and jersey shorts.

I take her father aside to ask difficult questions. I don't want Maya to hear his responses.

"She wants so much to go home," he says. "But it will be so difficult. Now that she does not have a leg, I will have to carry her everywhere. She won't be able to collect water or do her chores."

He tells me he was finally able to speak with his wife about their daughter's misfortune.

He says their village is nestled in a mountain. The only means of getting around is by foot; people grow accustomed to walking great distances.

"The pathways are steep and filled with rocks and stones," Gurung says.

He says his wife could not stop crying on the phone. "I lost my arms," she told him. "Maya did everything for me."

Gurung's biggest worry is that no one will want to marry his daughter. A father feels responsible for a daughter until he passes her off to her husband. This is the way it is in his world.

Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People collect bricks from the ruins of buildings in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on Friday, May 15. The region was struck with a magnitude-7.3 earthquake on Tuesday, May 12, just 17 days after a magnitude-7.8 quake left thousands dead. Hide Caption 1 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Members of the Nepalese Army search for a U.S. Marine helicopter in Nepal's Dolakha District on Thursday, May 14. The chopper went missing with six U.S. Marines and two Nepali service members on board. Three bodies were found in the helicopter's wreckage on Friday, Nepal's defense secretary said. Hide Caption 2 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Nepali rescue team members work at a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 14. Hide Caption 3 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Debris from a landslide blocks a road in the Dolakha district in Nepal on May 14. Hide Caption 4 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man carries a jug of water in Bhaktapur, Nepal, on May 14. Hide Caption 5 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man looks at massive damage in Chautara, Nepal, on Wednesday, May 13. Hide Caption 6 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A helicopter waits to evacuate an injured man at a Nepali army base near Chautara on May 13. Hide Caption 7 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A man carries his child to a camp for displaced people in Chautara on May 13. Hide Caption 8 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A family sleeps in an open space sheltered by plastic sheets in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Tuesday, May 12. Hide Caption 9 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People take shelter inside a car instead of being indoors in Kathamandu on May 12. Hide Caption 10 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A rescue worker from Mexico stands at the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 11 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People look through the debris of buildings in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 12 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake An injured person is carried in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 13 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake An injured man rests at a hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 14 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A boy sleeps in his father's lap after they moved to an open area in the Tundikhel area of Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 15 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A car is smashed under the weight of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 16 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A rescue worker from the U.S. Agency for International Development looks for survivors in Kathmandu along with a sniffer dog on May 12. Hide Caption 17 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People are carried out of a hospital building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 18 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People gather in an open space in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 19 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A woman tries to sit up at a hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 20 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake A woman rests at a makeshift hospital in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 21 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Rescue teams search for survivors in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 22 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Debris is cleared from the site of a collapsed building in Kathmandu on May 12. Hide Caption 23 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake Patients lie on stretchers in an open area after being carried out of a hospital building on May 12. Hide Caption 24 of 25 Photos: Nepal struck by another deadly quake People in Kathmandu hurry along a street after the quake struck on May 12. Hide Caption 25 of 25

"Who will take care of her when I am gone?" he asks.

I look at Maya and wonder whether she comprehends the gravity of the problem.

"I will stay home all the time," she tells me. "My father will carry me when I have to go out."

Her doctors say she can eventually be fitted with a prosthetic leg. But in rural Nepal, she may not have the access to the medical care she will need as she grows.

I take out a present I have brought for Maya. It's inside a bright blue cloth bag.

"Mobile," she says, a smile lighting up her entire face as she opens the box.

The doctors estimate she could be discharged in the next two weeks. Again, I try to imagine what her life might be like, in that hardscrabble existence, without a leg.

"Will you call me?" I ask.

Maya nods her head. I say goodbye with the hope that she will.

Postscript

On Tuesday, Maya called Ayush Khadka, a former journalist who worked as a guide for me when I was in Kathmandu. She and her father told Khadka that they were leaving the hospital and were making their way home.

Then another earthquake struck Nepal and Khadka has not been able to make contact with the family since.

Khadka and I plan to keep trying to make contact with Maya and her family. I can only hope they are safe.
</text>