<url>
http://www.delawareonline.com/story/news/local/2015/05/16/bumpy-road-katunge/27445245/
</url>

<date>
20150516
</date>

<headline>
The bumpy road to Katunge
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Margie Fishman reports from a small village in the Katunge region of Nepal damaged by the April 25 earthquake. Delawareans are helping villagers to rebuild and prepare for the monsoon season.

Buy Photo The road on the way to the Katunge region winds its way past destroyed homes. (Photo: Daniel Sato/The News Journal)Buy Photo

Driving six hours northwest from Kathmandu to Katunge, one of the hardest-hit areas after the April 25 earthquake, requires patience, a sense of humor, an average to below-average body mass index, and loads of Dramamine.

News Journal photographer Daniel Sato and I expected a harrowing jeep ride after hearing from three members of the Delaware Medical Relief Team, who had traveled roughly the same distance to Syabru Bensi just two days before. They warned us of stomach-churning, rocky terrain, one-lane roads hugging cliffs, flat tires and overheated engines.

The trio never made it. A landslide prevented them from establishing a mobile health clinic. On their way home Tuesday, a second 7.3-magnitude earthquake hit as if to reiterate: You're not going anywhere.

Just hours earlier, the group had stopped in Dunche to talk to a Red Cross worker about local medical needs. They narrowly escaped a massive landslide triggered by the earthquake.

Karma? Anyone's guess.

So, you can imagine that I was excited to make a similar trek after getting 13 hours of sleep all week.

But we're journalists and we follow the news. We learned that a Dagsboro mother-daughter team, Amy and Holly Kaufman, planned to deliver tin roofs to nearly 200 of the most impoverished families in villages surrounding Katunge. If they could woman up, so could I.

Joining us were Deirdre Ritchie and Marilynn Bartley, two feisty nurses with the Delaware Medical Relief Team. They came to establish a one-day medical clinic to run in tandem with the tin distribution.

In the days that followed the first devastating earthquake, relief and government workers flooded to the more accessible capital of Kathmandu and surrounding valley, while helicopters focused on evacuating residents and delivering aid to villages not served by roads.

Buy Photo (Photo: Daniel Sato/The News Journal)

Katunge has a road, but just barely. It's no surprise that volunteers have avoided it. Imagine enduring three straight hours of airplane turbulence with a dozen others smashed in a jeep with a squeaky right wheel and a hacking driver who blares Justin Bieber mash-ups.

That's probably why this flattened nine-village community has been largely ignored. Chinese doctors stopped by in the days immediately after the quake, but it's been untouched ever since.

On Thursday, we grabbed two taxis to make the three-hour journey (on paved roads) to the commercial district of Dharding, where we had planned to meet the Kaufmans.

After avoiding squat toilets for the entire three weeks I traveled in India last year, I made a vow to conquer this foul creature from hell in Nepal.

So, I grabbed a few tissues, a bottle of hand sanitizer, and repeated to myself: "I just survived an earthquake. I am brave. I can do this."

Entering the creaky squat potty closet brought back unpleasant memories. I made the mistake of wearing skinny jeans, so it was difficult to position myself without falling into a cesspool.

After a few minutes of picturing a waterfall, I gave up and just decided to hold it. (As an aside, I later wet myself, which resulted in me having to wear leopard-print pajamas the entire next day in the village).

We were thrilled to learn from Amy that her group had already hired a jeep for the second leg that could accommodate everyone, including a scatterbrained witch doctor and a lama wearing chartreuse robes and Puma knockoffs.

I dreamed of a mountain safari with fragrant breezes rustling my hair.

What I got was my legs pinned in the stifling backseat with three others. Daniel was shoved in the very back (also known as dust storm central), stuffed with our personal gear, tents, pastel mosquito nets and giant water bottles. He bumped his head eight times on the steel bar above him.

Buy Photo (Photo: Daniel Sato/The News Journal)

Five others rode on the roof, occasionally banging when the driver was about to slam into a rock shard.

After the vehicle successfully scaled a hill, following several fits and starts, those inside erupted in applause.

One of the passengers cheered, "Shiva is here!" It's a reference to the "Great God" in Hinduism.

Things got dicey when a drunk wearing a pink shirt attempted to board the vehicle. Irate, he demanded to hang off the side, while the driver tried to reason with him. Eventually, he stumbled on down the road.

We passed heart-wrenching villages which resembled landfills or bombed-out war zones with stray fuchsia flowers. Homes were flattened into a sandwich of stones, wooden beams, bricks and twisted tin. A child used a broken TV to create a throne on the rubble.

From a distance, landslides created an indelible imprint on the terra cotta-colored earth.

Tarps extended from storefronts selling wool sweaters in 80-degree heat and glass bottles of Coca-Cola that had to be returned after guzzling.

There were also moments of sheer beauty, hazy mountains framing terraced wheat fields. And signs of rebuilding, including piles of steel rebar and chain-link fencing.

We managed to arrive at our destination on time, despite a 15-goat backup.

Greeting us was a multi-generational audience of more than 20 smiling villagers. They created a processional handing out tangerine-colored flowers and cream scarves, and smeared red paste on our foreheads to mark the special occasion.

"We love the people of Nepal so much, we will do whatever we can," Amy Kaufman told the crowd, while Nepali soldiers took video of her.

"We come because no one else has come."

Read or Share this story: http://delonline.us/1HnnbMG
</text>