<url>
http://www.nst.com.my/node/83709
</url>

<date>
20150509
</date>

<headline>
Braving Kathmandu no easy feat for humanitarian aid mission
</headline>

<text>
SEPANG: Braving the disaster-stricken Kathmandu in Nepal was no easy feat for the humanitarian aid mission team of 26, who endured waves of aftershock after the tragic earthquake on April 25.

The mission was complex; not only did the team have to deal with coordination problems with other international agencies and non-governmental organisations, they also faced troubles with sanitation and long rides on difficult terrains.

The mission team, comprising 18 medical specialists and eight members of the media was led by Datuk Dr Mohamed Alwi Abdul Rahman, assisted by Sungai Buloh Hospital director Datuk Dr Khalid Ibrahim.

"When there are hundreds other agencies and NGOs, coordination becomes a difficult task, and things become complex especially since teamwork was of prime importance. Thankfully, we have identified what was needed and it was easier to move forward from then on.

"And although we had medical practitioners such as doctors, nurses, surgeons and psychiatrists who wanted to do more, they couldn't because resources were limited," he said.

He advised other humanitarian aid mission teams who wished to go to Kathmandu to be prepared, as the monsoon season was approaching and sanitation and clean water were restricted.

Alwi and his team, as part of the Malaysia Umno Welfare Bureau and the 1Malaysia Putera Club (KP1M) Humanitarian Aid Mission arrived at Kuala Lumpur International Airport from Kathmandu at around 7 pm yesterday after being there for a week.

The 26, comprised both senior and junior volunteers proudly wore their orange "Malaysia Volunteer" vests as they came out from the arrival hall, waving at friends and family members who were relieved to see them back home, safe and sound.

It was a first time experience for Dr Khalid, who told of the long journey the team had undergone.

"The distance from Kathmandu to the foot of the mountain in Kavre is only 65km, but because of the hilly landscape, it took us between five and six hours by bus to arrive. To reach the village of Phalate at 1,200 metres above sea level 5km away, took us three hours via a four-wheel drive.

"We were the first medical team to arrive there after one week. Four of our doctors and 10 paramedics had spent the night there, and even though there were two aftershocks measuring at 5.5 on the Richter scale, they continued their journey," Dr Khalid said.

KP1M president Datuk Abdul Azeez Abdul Rahman who was present to welcome their safe return, said they would continue to provide assistance, following the Nepalese government's request for more essentials to be sent.

Azeez said they already had a list of items needed such as medical supplies, blankets and warm clothing, which would be discussed with the Prime Minister and patron of KP1M, Datuk Seri Najib Razak, before delivering them.

The earthquake, described as the worst tragedy to hit Nepal in 81 years, was measured 7.9 on the Richter scale. It left over 7,500 dead with more than 26,000 injured.
</text>