<url>
http://english.cri.cn/12394/2015/05/14/3745s878631.htm
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Nepal Needs Urgent Aid after New Quake Hits
</headline>

<text>
A Chinese medical worker and his colleague attend to an injured Nepalese woman in the district of Dhulikhel on April 29, 2015. [Photo: cri.cn] The death toll from Tuesday's 7.3-magnitude aftershock in Nepal has climbed to at least 91, with another 2,000 injured. The quake, which hit just 10 kilometers from the Chinese border, is said to be an aftershock from last month's deadly quake which has left well over 8,000 dead. CRI's Qi Zhi has more. 0514nepa.mp3 Fearful of another quake, many in Kathmandu are sleeping out in the open amid fears of more collapsing buildings. While temporary housing is a major concern, so is medical treatment for the new batch of injured. Over 2,000 people were hurt during Tuesdays' quake. This is on top of the nearly 18,000 who sustained injuries in the first quake on April 25th. Local hospitals in Dhulikhel, some 30 km southeast of the capital, are overwhelmed with victims. A Chinese field hospital operating in the area has already treated around 700 people. Liu Kejia, who heads the Chinese team at the field hospital, says they are making preparations for more patients. "Because of the earthquake, six patients came to our hospital. Our Chinese medical team immediately gave them emergency treatment. Last night after 8:30, we received about 11 patients transferred from Dhulikhel Hospital. We predict there will be more patients today. So, we made space for those new patients in advance. In other words, as long as they have a requirement, we're ready to receive more patients today." Chinese medical teams have treated more than 1,800 people since the initial quake struck last month. Medical personnel from other countries are also being flown into Nepal by helicopter to set up makeshift camps. British doctor Phil Llewelwyn is among them. "Now the second one's here, there's a lot of angst amongst the people of: will there be another one? When will it come? What's going to happen to us? So there's a lot of psychological trauma amongst these people. You can see they're very, very frightened, very worried, unsure and uncertain about their safety and also their financial futures really." Xu Zhicheng, a member of China's Blue Sky rescue team, says relief goods are urgently needed, as the annual monsoon season in Nepal is imminent. "Now we are mainly focusing on making tents for the displaced people, as temperature changes sharply from day to night and there are a lot of mosquitos at night." The Chinese Foreign Ministry says China is preparing to send its third batch of aid to Nepal. Most of the known fatalities from Tuesday's aftershock are in villages and towns east of Kathmandu, which had only just begun to pick up the pieces from the previous quake. For CRI, I'm Qi Zhi.
</text>