<url>
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/aid-starts-coming-nepal-after-quake-kills-more-1800
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Aid starts coming to Nepal after quake kills more than 1,800
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU — Tens of thousands of Nepalese who spent the night under a chilly sky were jolted awake by strong aftershocks today (April 26), and rescuers aided by international teams cleared rubble in search of survivors after a powerful earthquake killed at least 1,865 people across the Himalayan region.

Nepal bore the brunt of the quake’s impact with at least 1,805 dead and more than 5,000 injured. The toll is expected to climb as more reports come in from far-flung areas, said Home Ministry official Laxmi Dhakal. Among the dead are 17 who were struck by a quake-triggered avalanche on Mount Everest that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers at the end of the climbing season.

Yesterday’s magnitude 7.8 earthquake, which originated outside the capital Kathmandu, was the worst to hit the poor South Asian nation in over 80 years. It destroyed the old, historic part of Kathmandu, and was strong enough to be felt all across the northern part of neighbouring India, Bangladesh, China’s region of Tibet and Pakistan, where a total of 60 people died.

“There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried,” said Mr Sundar Sah. “I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive.”

When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.

After the chaos of yesterday — when little organised rescue and relief was seen — there was relatively more order today as rescue teams fanned out across the city. At one place in Kalanki neighbourhood, police rescuers tried to extricate a man lying under a dead person, crushed by a pile of concrete slabs and iron beams. His family members stood nearby, crying and praying.

Police said the man’s legs and hips were totally crushed.

“We are digging the debris around him, cutting through concrete and iron beams. We will be able to pull him out but his body under his waist is totally crushed. He is still alive and crying for help. We are going to save him,” said police officer Suresh Rai.

Most areas were without power and water today, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal.

He said government and private schools have been turned into shelters.

Pages
</text>