<url>
http://www.highrivertimes.com/2015/05/14/senator-riley-class-raises-money-for-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Senator Riley class raises money for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
By Kelci Nicodemus

MULTIMEDIA JOURNALIST

A Grade 7 class from École Senator Riley Middle School is making efforts to raise money to help residents of Nepal after the recent earthquake on April 25.

Joanne Loewen, who teaches the french immersion class, and her students have made numerous efforts to raise funds, including a bake sale, a bottle drive and a newly launched GoFundMe page.

The idea came about while the students were sharing current events in class.

“Usually, I throw out a question and say, ‘Hey, what’s going on in the world?’ and they share things that they’ve heard, things they talk about with their parents,” she said. “Usually by the time everyone shares something, we have a good base and then I give them a little bit of time and I say, ‘OK you have 10 minutes, find me the top stuff.’”

The students became immediately interested in the Nepal disaster, Loewen added.

“It just happened that the day we started it was the day before the earthquake...and the Monday we came back and the kids were like, ‘Oh we need to add this,’” she said.

Loewen then asked her students what they can do to help people in Nepal and her students became increasingly excited about donating money, she noted.

“They brainstormed and they came up with ideas and one kid asked me, ‘Can we actually do this? Can we do a fundraiser?’” she said.

Students Justin Helash, Kaiden Hamelin and Ryan Lanz wanted to help out when they heard about the severity of the disaster.

“Our whole class decided to start fundraising and looked into it a little bit and then after a while we started getting more serious about it,” Helash said.

The class will be doing a “garb-a-thon” in the near future as well as a garage sale to raise money, the students added.

“So the garb-a-thon is when you go around to stores and families and every bag you pick you get a certain amount of money...and we’re doing it as a whole class,” Lanz said.

Loewen’s class has also partnered up with members of the community for their fundraiser, such as Sameer Shakya, a local firefighter for the High River Fire Department (HRFD) who is originally from Nepal.

Shakya spoke with students about what they can do to help. He mentioned his cousin, who lives in Nepal, and how he could connect the students with him to donate directly to residents, the students noted.

“I believe one of his cousins works in a foster home and it didn’t get destroyed, but the community right beside it was completely destroyed so he has connections to that,” Lanz said, adding funds raised will most likely be donated to that community.

Donating to Nepal is important to the students of Loewen’s class, especially after the flood of June 2013,

Hamelin mentioned.

“We just had our own natural disaster, and we know how it feels, but theirs was way worse so we feel the need to help,” Hamelin said.

Lanz added fundraising for this cause makes him feel good about himself.

“When you donate it’s going to Nepal to help people that basically have no houses, no water, no food, nowhere to stay and giving them some useful resources they can use to

survive,” Helash said.

The students have raised approximately $720 so far with a goal of $2,500.

Those interested in donating to Loewen’s Grade 7 class fundraiser for the Nepal disaster can visit their GoFundMe page at www.gofundme.Follow @highriverteach to visit the class blog or search their hashtag #KidsHelpNepal.

A garage sale will be held to support the cause on May 30 at 232 Third Ave. from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
</text>