<url>
http://www.bowenislandundercurrent.com/news/as-the-earthquake-continues-so-does-the-need-for-donations-1.1935473
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
As the earthquake continues, so does the need for donations
</headline>

<text>
It’s been two weeks since that fateful day on April 25th, when Nepal suffered a massive 7.9 earthquake that resulted in the deaths of 8,000 and casualties of over 16,000 people. And news is just in - a 2nd large earthquake of 7.3 shook the Everest region on May 12th. As I write this, the number of deaths and casualties is still being assessed but if it is anything like the first earthquake, the numbers will be high. So far, SIRC has admitted 79 SCI patients with a further 120 expected as more spinal surgeries are performed in the coming weeks and more referrals are made as a result of the May 12th earthquake. There is still much work to do.

Fundraising in Canada has been great with over $29,000 raised at the time of going to press. Wow! Dhanybad, we are most grateful for your generosity.

Here’s how your donations have been put to work:

Thanks to Drs Peter Wing and Claire Weeks, three Nepalese doctors with SCI expertise have been repatriated from Dhaka and are currently working at SIRC.

We purchased equipment and medicals supplies (antibiotics, painkillers, beds, mattresses, blankets as well as specialized SCI tools) to establish additional wards and individual rehab programs for up to 200 SCI patients.

We now need sufficient funding to pay salaries for additional nurses, physios and OTs and other medical professionals to handle the expected increase in the number of patients with complex health conditions.

Besides monetary contributions, we have had brilliant support from the global SCI community.

Again through Drs Peter Wing and Claire Weeks, daily consults via Skype with SCI doctors in Europe and Canada have become part of the routine at SIRC.

On the ground SCI coaching & training at SIRC is underway from staff of BSMMU, Dhaka and Royal Melbourne Hospital.

Our Volunteer Coordinator is a volunteer herself! Fiona is planning SIRC’s needs in the coming months & matching international expertise appropriately.

And we have had many In-kind donations from local businesses and individuals in Nepal.

Received donations of food, pillows, gloves, masks, catheters, wheelchairs.

Esha Thapa, SIRC’s Executive Director has been hard at work attending the various coordination meetings with Government of Nepal Ministries as well as Aid Agencies. Securing block funding for the sponsorship of a 3-month rehabilitation program for over 150 patients continues to be our focus. As is the funding to resettle these patients once their rehabilitation is complete. Most have no homes to go to, most no longer can rely on their income generating activities pre-earthquake. Their struggle will continue beyond the walls of SIRC. Preparing these funding applications is where my skills have proved useful.

After this May 12th earthquake, your donations are needed more than ever. If you haven’t done so already, please donate if can. Tell your friends! All donations made prior to May 25th, will be matched by the Canadian Government.
</text>