<url>
http://www.thewhig.com/2015/05/13/kingston-woman-heartbroken-with-village-on-mind
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Kingston woman heartbroken with village on mind
</headline>

<text>
The recent earthquakes in Nepal have left one Kingston woman heartbroken as she painfully watches updates on the relief effort with the villagers of Phoolbari on her mind.

Roughly 25 years ago, Diane Kennedy's connection to Phoolbari -- a remote village in the mountains of the Kavrepalanchok District, Nepal -- began while her son was on a yearlong program with Canada World Youth.

"He sent back wonderful reports of village life and the people, how good they were," Kennedy said.

A year after her son's return, Kennedy decided to search out the village as part of a backpacking trip around the globe.

After asking multiple people on the streets of Dhulikhel -- the closest town to the village, 30 km from Katmandu -- about the village, finally she found someone who agreed to guide her on the two-hour trek through the mountains.

It was during her initial visit that Kennedy and the villagers adopted each other as family.

"They greeted me as if I was a queen," Kennedy recalled in an interview.

One of the teachers in the village, who spoke bits of broken English -- which was better than any of the others in the village -- welcomed Kennedy into his family's mud hut. There she met the teacher's child, who would later become like a son to her and her a mother to the village.

After she returned to Canada, Kennedy couldn't take her mind off the poor living conditions of the people in the village. In 1990, she began a scholarship program to send the top male and female students from the village school to a school in the neighbouring town to receive their diplomas.

Now, almost 25 years later, Kennedy has visited the village another three times, and has watched more than 16 of the villagers succeed in post-secondary institutions with the support of the Kingston, Gananoque and almost 11 other Rotary clubs. One of those students was Shree, the teacher's son whom she met during her initial visit.

Shree graduated with a mechanical engineering degree from Kathmandu University, where he started a Rotary club that has been distributing earthquake relief aid to the village with the funding from Kingston.

Kennedy has become a mother figure to Shree and the people of Phoolbari and worries about Shree's wife, who is expected to give birth soon. The families have been forced to live in tents and under tarps outdoors in fear of another earthquake.

With the help of her friends in Kingston, Kennedy has managed to raise roughly $4,000 for earthquake relief. The money has been sent to Shree and used to distribute mattress, mosquito nets, tarps and food supplies to the people of Phoolbari.

Kennedy has been in contact with Shree, who reports that 90% of the villagers' homes are now uninhabitable. Many of the villagers' farm animals -- mostly cows or water buffalo used for their dairy products -- were crushed during the quake by the collapsing homes.

However, the greatest donation that has come from the Kingston initiative -- the 16-room school built in 2007 -- is still in relatively good condition, only suffering damage to its roof.

Sadly, the school has been out of use since the quake.

"When I asked about the school, (Shree) said: 'It's the last thing on people's mind right now. They're just trying to live day to day,'" Kennedy said.

Luckily, no villagers died in the earthquake, but they are still suffering the effects of the traumatic event. Kennedy says the photos tell the whole story.

"These wonderful people just lost everything. They lost their animals, they lost their homes, the structure of their community. It just pulls at your heart to hear that."
</text>