<url>
http://www.capitalgazette.com/ct-marine-helicopter-missing-nepal-20150513,0,6926253.story
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Still no sign of missing U.S. military helicopter in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The father of the Kansas man who was flying a helicopter missing in Nepal says he is confident his son will be found OK.

Richard Norgren said Wednesday his 31-year-old son, Capt. Chris Norgren, was flying the U.S. Marine helicopter that disappeared Tuesday while delivering disaster aid to earthquake victims.

He says Marine Corps officials came to the family's house in Wichita to inform him and his wife that their son was missing and reassured them there are no indications the aircraft crashed.

Norgren says his son is a smart kid with degrees in aerospace engineering and mathematics.

He says his son is a survivor and that is why he believes he will make it back.

The helicopter carrying six Marines and two Nepalese Army soldiers went missing during a mission in Nepal delivering aid to earthquake victims, U.S. defense officials said, but so far there have been no indications that the aircraft crashed.

U.S. Army Col. Steve Warren said an Indian helicopter in the air nearby at the time heard radio chatter from the Marine aircraft about a possible fuel problem. He said the Huey, carrying tarps and rice, had dropped off supplies in one location and was en route to a second site when contact was lost. He said officials are hopeful that the aircraft is simply missing because there has been no smoke or other signs of a crash.

Navy Capt. Chris Sims says the Huey was conducting disaster relief operations near Charikot, Nepal, on Tuesday, around 9 a.m. EDT.

Warren said a Nepalese air brigade unit had seen the Huey, so Marines in V-22 Osprey aircraft searched near that last known location for about 90 minute but found nothing. Because it's now dark, members of the Nepalese Army are conducting the search on foot. Warren said they are moving toward the second aid location to see if the helicopter landed near there.

CAPTION An earthquake hit a remote mountains region of Nepal early on Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides and toppling buildings less than three weeks after the country was ravaged by its worst quake in decades. An earthquake hit a remote mountains region of Nepal early on Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides and toppling buildings less than three weeks after the country was ravaged by its worst quake in decades. CAPTION An earthquake hit a remote mountains region of Nepal early on Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides and toppling buildings less than three weeks after the country was ravaged by its worst quake in decades. An earthquake hit a remote mountains region of Nepal early on Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides and toppling buildings less than three weeks after the country was ravaged by its worst quake in decades. CAPTION Nepal's Home Ministry has raised the death toll from Tuesday's quake to at least 42, while saying another 1,117 people have been injured. (Associated Press) Nepal's Home Ministry has raised the death toll from Tuesday's quake to at least 42, while saying another 1,117 people have been injured. (Associated Press) CAPTION The tremor hit at around 12:30 pm local time, sending panicked residents of Kathmandu rushing into the streets. The quake was centered near the town of Namche Bazaar, close to Mount Everest. (Reuters) The tremor hit at around 12:30 pm local time, sending panicked residents of Kathmandu rushing into the streets. The quake was centered near the town of Namche Bazaar, close to Mount Everest. (Reuters) CAPTION A new earthquake and several powerful aftershocks hit devastated Nepal, sending residents running into the streets of the traumatised capital. (A) A new earthquake and several powerful aftershocks hit devastated Nepal, sending residents running into the streets of the traumatised capital. (A) CAPTION Nepal's politicians ran for their lives as a new earthquake rocked the parliament building. (Sky News) Nepal's politicians ran for their lives as a new earthquake rocked the parliament building. (Sky News)

Because of the rugged mountainous terrain, the helicopter could have landed in a low area but the Marines may not be able to get a beacon or radio signal out, Warren said. He added that U.S. airborne para-rescue forces have rehearsed rescue missions, and are ready to go if needed.

The aircraft is part of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, and the incident is under investigation.

There are about 300 U.S. troops in Nepal assisting with the rescue mission, using a variety of aircraft including three Hueys, four Ospreys and several cargo planes.

Associated Press
</text>