<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150427/jsp/nation/story_16906.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Out of jaws of snow monster
</headline>

<text>
A boy looks through a hole in a tent in Kathmandu on Sunday. (Reuters) Kathmandu, April 26: The first rescue plane carrying people injured in Saturday's earthquake-triggered avalanche that swept through the Mount Everest base camp landed in Kathmandu around noon today, shortly before a strong aftershock rocked India and Nepal and triggered more snowfalls. None of the survivors appeared to have life-threatening injuries. Nepal's worst quake in 81 years, at 7.9 magnitude, killed over 2,400 people, including at least 18 climbers, as the avalanche obliterated part of the base camp. Many climbers were still on the mountain but there were no immediate reports of more casualties after today's tremors, felt as far away as Delhi, triggered a new series of avalanches. The plane carrying 15 injured people arrived in the Nepalese capital from Lukla, home to the closest airport to Mount Everest. Officials refused to provide details on their conditions, but most appeared to have broken bones or other treatable injuries. Among those evacuated, 12 were Nepalese Sherpas. There was also one person each from China, South Korea and Japan. Several of the injured had bandages on their heads, one spotted with blood and all were able to walk. Tourism ministry officials estimate that at least 1,000 climbers, including around 400 foreigners, had been at the base camp or on the ascent to the peak when the quake struck. Pemba Sherpa, a 43-year-old guide with the right side of his face bandaged, was surprised he had survived. He had rushed from his tent when the earthquake had struck yesterday and was standing in the open when he heard a big noise. "The next thing I know I was swept away by the snow. I must have been swept almost 200 metres," he said after being taken to Kathmandu Medical College Hospital. Among those rescued was Nick Talbot, 39, who was attempting to be the first person with cystic fibrosis to climb Everest when a 100 to 200-yard wall of ice and snow came barrelling toward him. "I thought, 'There is no chance I can get away.' I just had my socks on. It knocked me into the rocks. I got up and it knocked me over again," he said. Talbot returned without anything but the clothes he wore. All his belongings, including his money, were buried by the avalanche. A British climber described how huge boulders had come crashing down towards him. "The blocks coming down from the mountains were huge," said Sean James, 44, a mountain guide from Sheffield, who was reading in his tent at the base camp when the quake struck at 11.56am local time. "You don't know if they're going to hit you. It was unreal. We didn't know when it was going to stop. "It was like being on a boat. A few of the Brits had never seen this kind of thing before. They were very scared. The Sherpas too - they were grabbing each other and hugging."#Earlier, in the morning, helicopters evacuated the injured to a lower altitude, from where they were being flown to Kathmandu. "All badly injured heli evacuated," Romanian climber Alex Gavan, who was at the base camp, posted on Twitter. REUTERS, AP AND THE SUNDAY TIMES, LONDON
</text>