<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/14/opinion/whos-afraid-of-the-government/405183.html
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Who’s afraid of the government?
</headline>

<text>
May 14, 2015-

The powerful aftershock on Tuesday has unsettled even the most hardy, swinging people between hope and despair. The quakes have made relief and recovery a protracted process, requiring a historic partnership between the people and the state to rise again from the destruction and despondency. Yet, they offer us an opportunity to create something new and meaningful, as history has offered us a critical juncture at which we can convert the devastation into creative destruction.

Sovereignty, geo-strategy and cholera

The scale of devastation unleashed by the April 25 earthquake generated a swift response from countries like India, China, and the US. The US, in particular, has been driving Nepal’s efforts to prepare for such a disaster for a long time. However, in recent weeks, there has been a mismatch between Nepal’s needs and the insistence of donors to provide military and aircraft for the relief efforts. There have also been concerns expressed by China over the penetration of foreign military forces in Nepal. Therefore, forging a balance between geo-strategic sensitivities and sovereignty on the one hand and humanitarian assistance on the other requires confident but careful handling by Nepal’s government.

With the monsoon pressing on, Nepal’s efforts at relief, reconstruction, and rehabilitation need to move ahead swiftly.

One of the marker’s of Nepal’s prestige, unfortunately, is cholera. If Nepal can overcome cholera during the monsoon months, it will help to erase the Haitian stigma. In a recent report, The New York Times’ Gardiner Harris focussed on the Haitian epidemic, where he started by quoting a Unicef official as saying that there will be outbreaks of cholera and other diseases in Nepal.

The international community and the media are fixated on the possibility of a cholera outbreak in Nepal, particularly because of Nepal’s infamous linkage to Haiti. Last week, NBC tweeted a photograph with the caption: ‘Cholera fear: Will Haiti’s hell come to Nepal after #earthquake?’

Nepal needs to prevent a repetition of Haiti, both in terms of the failed reconstruction and the outbreak of the cholera epidemic.

At a critical juncture

The problem with Haiti was that its poverty was largely a result of extractive political institutions and its society was already vulnerable to natural disasters. Nepal’s case is similar, yet we want to show the world that our society is more resilient, that we can still salvage democracy from the post-earthquake devastation, and that we can rebound.

Every crisis is an opportunity. Critical junctures like a natural disaster can also become vehicles for creative destruction that can help a country embark on a path of institutional reforms and growth.

Underdevelopment is largely a result of extractive institutions. Although factors like geography play a significant role, poverty in countries like Nepal is explained by the presence of institutions controlled by a small number of people who extract incomes, wealth, and power from a large number of people who remain poor and powerless.

Historical junctures create opportunities for ordinary people to reform the political and economic institutions that are entrenched in our society. Such reforms can unleash growth and promote democracy.

The recent relief efforts have demonstrated the entrenched nature of exclusive political institutions. Some political players involved in relief showed how they were keen on directing resources and relief materials to their own constituencies and supporters. When Members of Parliament expressed ire at the government and political leadership, it was primarily driven by their non-involvement in relief and rescue efforts.

Politics and the quake

There is now an intense competition among politicians to provide relief to the people in ‘their’ constituencies. Since politicians, for a long time, have been distributing resources appropriated from the state to their people, they were keen on doing the same this time. The measure of political representation, traditionally, has been their ability to divert resources meant for one group of people to their own constituency. It is for this reason that powerful politicians are able to build bridges and deliver development in their constituencies while less powerful politicians are unable to do so.

It is in this context that political parties are beginning to talk of a national government. The idea was first floated by PM Sushil Koirala himself. The issue most pertinent to relief and reconstruction is efficiency, transparency, and accountability. A national government will serve none. Instead, we need a strong opposition to maintain an oversight mechanism and make the government accountable.

The political parties should strengthen the state’s ability to carry out relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction. In order to be equitable and reach every affected person, the relief and reconstruction efforts should be politically neutral. The experience of recent weeks has been that when political players from the centre are involved, the relief efforts have been skewed in favour of certain groups and constituencies.

Instead of focusing on forming a national government, which will only increase partisan interventions and weaken the government’s focus, the parties should focus on forming non-partisan mechanisms at the district and local level that can ensure equitable distribution of relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction services to all affected people.

Trust the government

Another question is who should lead the long-term relief and reconstruction efforts.

It is not easy to trust the Nepali government. Pervasive corruption and extractive political institutions have made the state weak and ineffective in delivering public services. However, the current natural disaster has the potential to change things for the better.

International donors are reluctant to donate to the PM’s Disaster Relief Fund. The Fund so far has collected about Rs 5 billion, most of it donated by the Finance Ministry itself. Another mechanism is the UN system, particularly the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). In addition to that, there are other donors, including states like the US and the UK, who largely work through their own preferred INGOs and NGO partners.

Among these three mechanisms, the Nepal government’s efforts at reconstruction will be more cost effective than the interventions of INGOs and the UN system. It will also be easier to maintain oversight over Nepali institutions.

The government has estimated at least Rs 200 billion ($2 billion) for relief and recovery efforts and has set up a Reconstruction Fund. The UN, has similarly, estimated $400 million for its own humanitarian mission. This indicates that there is a huge gap between what is required and what has been offered. Cost-effectiveness is, therefore, not only preferred but mandated.

Spontaneous self-help groups led by individuals and institutions played a significant role in the immediate relief efforts. However, in order to be sustainable, these groups must work together with the state.

Although INGOs have systems in place to handle large amounts of money and implement the strategic intentions of donors, they are not very cost effective. Similarly, the UN system is very costly and its internal oversight mechanisms are very weak. The UN has failed to arrest growth in employment, salaries, and benefits. Personnel costs account for over 70 percent of UN spending, according to the UN’s Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions.

The remuneration average of UN employees is 32 percent higher than their counterparts in Washington, DC. How to arrest rising staff costs is a major concern of countries providing funds to the UN system. The UN’s internal oversight mechanisms have also come under criticism recently, with news agencies like the Associated Press saying that the world body is still struggling to hold itself accountable.

International agencies and local donors trying to help Nepal should, therefore, work directly through the government. Since this is a huge humanitarian effort, it will encourage sustainable national oversight mechanisms that can keep an eye on both the national government and international agencies like the UN. A practice established during the current crisis will generate a new generation of journalists, politicians, and institutions able to perform watchdog functions.

ajaya.khanal@gmail.com

Published: 14-05-2015 07:32
</text>