<url>
http://www.nebraska.tv/story/29084263/wilcox-natives-body-recovered-from-helicopter-crash
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Updated: Wilcox Native's Body Recovered from Helicopter Crash
</headline>

<text>
A Nebraska native is confirmed dead, one of the eight bodies now recovered from a helicopter that went missing Tuesday in Nepal.Dustin Lukasiewicz's aunt tells NTV the family was notified overnight Saturday.The Wilcox native was on the Huey helicopter with five other Marines and two Nepalese soldiers when it went down.The helicopter disappeared while delivering aid to victims of the second earthquake that hit Nepal.NTV spoke with some community members who knew Lukasiewicz last week."He was just a super person and a super leader when he was in school, so a kid every principal would like to have in school," said Vic Young, Wilcox-Hildreth principal.Lukasiewicz is survived by his wife, a daughter and another child on the way.

U.S. Senators Deb Fischer and Ben Sasse have released statements regarding his death.

“My thoughts and prayers go out to the family, friends, and loved ones of Capt. Dustin Lukasiewicz as they cope with this sudden and tragic loss," Fischer said. "Capt. Lukasiewicz represented the very best of Nebraska. His service to our nation will be remembered by the heroic mission he served. There is no greater honor than giving one's life to save another. By forging into danger to rescue strangers in a distant land, Capt. Lukasiewicz represents the ideals of our nation, personifying our mission as a force for good in the world.”

Sasse said, “Our prayers are with Captain Lukasiewicz's family, especially his wife and their two children. Nebraskans are heartbroken and know that, while we can never fully repay our debt of gratitude, we are bound to honor Captain Lukasiewicz's sacrifice and to care for his grieving family. This Nebraskan's heroism is an enduring reminder of the American people's commitment to extending comfort and relief to those suffering around the globe.”



One of Lukasiewicz's close friends has set up a GoFundMe account to raise money to be divided equally among the eight Marine and soldier families.



If the family members cannot be located, those shares will be donated to the Red Cross' relief fund for Nepal.



James Ford, who started the page, said “I am putting this together because Capt. Dustin Lukasiewicz, one of the helicopter pilots, was one of my closest friends. He leaves behind a wife, daughter, and another child on the way. While no amount of money will replace him in our hearts, I believe we have a duty to support their families in a tangible way.”

To donate, click here.




</text>