<url>
http://www.vnews.com/news/newsletter/16839542-95/colby-sawyer-graduates-be-mystical
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Colby-Sawyer Graduates: Be Mystical
</headline>

<text>
Colby-Sawyer Graduates: Be Mystical

New London — Tales of rock and roll, mythical creatures and sentimental inspiration prevailed at Colby-Sawyer College’s commencement ceremony early yesterday afternoon.



Before 312 students crossed the outdoor stage, faculty and students told stories to the soon-to-be graduates and their guests.



The two-hour-long event was filled with moments of excitement, as well as moments of solemnity.



Of the students enrolled at the small New London college, 125 come from outside of the United States.



From that group, more than 40 students are from Nepal, of which 15 graduated yesterday. The country’s recent earthquake was acknowledged at the start of the ceremony, with faculty expressing sorrow for what Nepal has endured.



Much of the ceremony was energetic, a sentiment that was captured in the commencement address.



A distinguished professor who drew overwhelming applause from the audience, Michael Jauchen used his commencement address to describe that important moment of crossing the stage and graduating from college — an instance that he called a “threshold moment.”



“And what I love most about threshold days like today, what I’ve always loved, is the energy in the air,” he said.



The special energy of the day — which he called “mysterious, ramshackle, electric and fun” — was best described with a Cajun French word, a term Jauchen learned while living in southern Louisiana: rougarou.



“I love this word,” he said. “I want to give this word to you today. Consider it my graduation present.”



Rougarou — the name of a mythical werewolf that prowls New Orleans swamps — means “the thing that is about to happen.”



“The rougarou is really about that deeper feeling, the thing that is about to happen to you that’s much more ethereal, more distant. At its heart it’s about this deep unpredictability that hums beneath all our lives from day to day,” Jauchen said.



Colby-Sawyer College President Thomas Galligan explored in his address the unpredictability that Jauchen spoke of. Rather than using a mythical tale though, Galligan drew on lyrics by the Grateful Dead’s 1974 song Scarlet Begonias to encourage the graduates to be mystical.



“Be mystical. Be true to yourself and you will never be wrong — even if you ain’t always right,” he said.



“Look at life your way. Trust your education and your vision, but always keep learning, too. Finally, expect the unexpected, because it seldom turns out the way it does in a song.”



The last piece of Galligan’s advice was from the verse: “Well, I ain’t always right but I’ve never been wrong / Seldom turns out the way it does in a song / Once in a while you get shown the light / In the strangest of places if you look at it right.”



Awards were presented to faculty members — including Jauchen, who was given the Jack Jensen Award for Excellence in Teaching — community members, alumni and students during the ceremony yesterday.



More than one-third of the college’s graduates are from within the state, including students from Concord, Warner, Weare, Bow, New London, Hillsboro and other communities. Degree recipients were awarded bachelor of arts, bachelor of science and liberal arts associate degrees.



The class’s senior commencement speaker, a history and political science student, shared some humor and inspiration with her classmates before receiving her bachelor’s degree.



Krista Peace was chosen to speak for representing the character of the graduating class. Her address, “Striving for Excellence,” was a reference to one of the school’s values.



Peace told the audience that excellence, according to Aristotle, means that “We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.”



The class’s habits, including philanthropic acts, weekend activities, internships, environmental activism, compassion, hard work and more, have shaped the Colby-Sawyer graduates.



“The culmination of our habits results in a community that strives for, and achieves, excellence every single day. This shines from every facet of our college, and the Class of 2015 has repeatedly, habitually, been a brilliant representation of what it means to be a Charger,” she said, referring to the college’s mascot.



“Remember to maintain these habits as we begin the next chapters of our lives in the, dynamic, diverse, and independent world that we have spent the last four years at Colby-Sawyer preparing to thrive in.”



Class of 2015



Here is a list of Upper Valley graduates from the Colby-Sawyer College Class of 2015, as provided by the college:



New Hampshire: Carli Marie Downey, Lebanon; Krystyna Estrada, Lebanon; Jennifer Caitlin Gavell, Lebanon; Nikkita Helena Gottling, Sunapee; Jessica J. Harrington, Enfield; Najwan Ismail, New London; Lukas Kalvaitis, New London; Bethany Rachel Klebes, Claremont; Shaun A. Miller, New London; Jessica Lynn Ruel, Enfield; Saran Asmiatou Savane, New London.



Vermont: Sarah Lynn Cornelius, Hartland; Meredith Leigh Fogg, White River Junction; Natalia Karaulova, Quechee; Caitlyn Leigh LeBlanc, White River Junction; Kori Lee Page, Bradford, Vt.; Michelle Debra Upham, Chelsea; Emily Ann Urquhart, White River Junction.



□



Susan Doucet can be reached at 603-369-3309 or sdoucet@cmonitor.com.






</text>