<url>
http://www.telegraphindia.com/1150511/jsp/jharkhand/story_19360.jsp
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Trade Talk
</headline>

<text>
Mecon brains The state government appointed Mecon Limited as a consultant to evaluate assets and liabilities of Patratu Thermal Power Station (PTPS) in Ramgarh district and provide transaction advisory services in association with PFC Consulting Limited and SBI Capital Markets Ltd for the joint venture company between the state government and National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). This will help improve its performance for capacity expansion. Mecon had earlier submitted its valuation report in March 2015 and subsequently prepared memorandum of agreement and financial models for the joint venture following discussions with the state government and NTPC. The NTPC board approved the proposal in the last week of April and the state cabinet followed suit on May 2, 2015. The Raghubar Das government on May 4 inked an agreement for the joint venture company to set up the 4,000MW power plant on PTPS land and upgrade its existing facility New colliery Magadh, a new colliery of Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) in Chatra district, became operational when Union minister of state for coal, power and renewable energy Piyush Goyal inaugurated it online from Ranchi on May 3. Spread over an area of 16.02sqkm, Magadh is said to have a reserve of over 350 million tonnes (MT) of coal, a CCL source informed. The coal company, which is a subsidiary of Coal India Limited, would be mining around 20MT from Magadh colliery every year. Formed on November 1, 1975, CCL has been a Category-I Mini-Ratna Company since October 2007. It aims to produce and market planned quantity of coal and coal products efficiently and economically, giving

priority to safety, conservation and quality Nissan touch-point As a part of its expansion plan, Nissan Motor India Pvt Ltd (NMIPL) gave its first dealership in Ranchi to Titan Nissan, whose sales touch-point was inaugurated at Ormanjhi on May 3. “Nissan is present in 136 cities of the country and this is the 190th sales touch-point,” NMIPL managing director Arun Malhotra said at the inauguration. “By 2016, we hope to have 300 touch-points.” Dealer B.K. Singhania assured customers of total satisfaction. “We are very proud to be associated with Nissan, a global frontrunner in the auto industry,” he said Being a concerned neighbour Adhunik Disaster Response Force, promoted by Adhunik Group, will give relief to quake-hit Nepal. In a meeting on May 4 at its Calcutta office, it was decided that a 10-member team, including a doctor and a compounder, led by corporate communications head Sunil Kumar Mishra would offer aid, food and essential items to 500 families close to the quake’s epicentre
</text>