<url>
http://www.todayonline.com/world/asia/nepalis-rebuild-homes-while-waiting-aid
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Nepalis rebuild homes while waiting for aid
</headline>

<text>
Not content with waiting for government help, many locals build their own shelters

KATHMANDU — Unlike many Nepalese left homeless by last month’s earthquake who are waiting for government aid to rebuild their homes, Ms Ghimire Shobha, 30, would rather borrow money from her family and find work to supplement her income.

“Everybody wants money to rebuild their house, and they are asking: Who is giving? Where is the donation? They are just waiting,” said the businesswoman, who has returned to live with her family of nine in Nuwakot in central Nepal.

Instead, Ms Ghimire intends to borrow money from her sister, who is living overseas, to build a temporary home made out of metal sheets and iron rods. As she continues to source for an office space for her business in Kathmandu, she also helps out at a mobile clinic near her home so as to earn extra cash.

More than a fortnight after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal, more locals like Ms Ghimire are rebuilding their homes or returning to work ahead of government help.

With the monsoon season expected to hit Nepal around the second half of next month, relief efforts are now focused on providing shelter for the locals. Ms Caroline Wong, 35, a Singaporean teacher living in Nepal, and her husband have been helping the residents of Bungmati, a village that is a 30-minute drive from Kathmandu.

Four days after the earthquake, the pair delivered enough food to feed 450 people for 15 days, as part of their feeding programme for the village. Residents were roped in to help cook the supplies and the programme has since been taken over by the locals, who continue to prepare food for their village daily.

Several days ago, about seven families in Bungmati began building temporary shelters made from metal. For instance, Mr Hari Krishna Maharjan, 42, started building his home on Saturday using bamboo sticks.

With multiple families living together in a makeshift tent, Mr Hari said the tent had become uncomfortable, given the hot weather and mosquitoes in the area. “The government said it would take two years to rebuild my home. (While) waiting for them, I have to protect my family from disease,” he said.

As more families continue to receive food aid, Ms Wong’s husband, Mr Wilson Shrestha, 31, noted that the next stage of relief efforts involves providing shelter. “The monsoon season is going to start soon, (and there will be) a lot of mosquitoes, insects, sicknesses. (Shelter) is like a protection for the entire family also, from all the sicknesses and the rain,” said Mr Shrestha, who runs a travel agency.

Meanwhile, the 126-member contingent from the Singapore Civil Defence Force and Singapore Police Force returned home on Saturday night after helping in Nepal’s relief efforts.
</text>