<url>
http://www.presstelegram.com/government-and-politics/20150509/how-a-long-beach-mother-and-her-family-are-providing-relief-to-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
How a Long Beach mother and her family are providing relief to Nepal
</headline>

<text>
For Long Beach stay-at-home mom Maneesha Joshi, helping her mother means also helping a country in need.

On Monday, Joshi will travel to Kathmandu, Nepal, to assist Gauri Rana Joshi, her mother, who provided shelter for nearly 2,000 people in the days immediately following the magnitude-7.8 April 25 earthquake, at the school she runs for low-income families. Now her mother must raise funds and rebuild Martyrs Memorial Boarding High School, which suffered significant damage, before the torrential rains of the monsoon season come.

Maneesha Joshi’s sister, Boston-resident Samisha Joshi LaMeyer, has been in the country for the past 10 days airlifting food and other supplies to remote villages in the Gorkha District — the quake’s epicenter.

“Everybody in Nepal is working 23 hours a day here,” LaMeyer said by phone this week. “I’m in ground zero probably 30 miles away from the epicenter [the villages of Barpak].”

Although LaMeyer traveled to Nepal intending to help her 77-year-old mother with relief and repair efforts at the school, she found that the greatest need was for helicopter supply drops.

“The earthquake has been devastating,” LaMeyer said. “Today, every drop we cried. Every pickup we cried. [Around] the epicenter there are 300 to 400 villages completely wiped out.”

There are paved roads between major parts of the district, but dirt roads are the main transportation infrastructure connecting many of the small, high-altitude villages, she said. People walk on these roads — sometimes for days — to get to other villages.

“The landslides washed away all the roads for people to walk,” she said. “The chief district officer [who oversees the region], Uddhav Timilsima, he is sitting with a thousand tons of supplies, and he doesn’t have helicopters to drop them.”

LaMeyer said that help has come since word spread of the group’s efforts, including from Pasang Lhamu Sherpa, a Nepalese woman who was part of the first all-female team to summit K2, the second highest mountain in the world.

“We cried all the way because people were waiting on us to ask for food,” LaMeyer said of one of the supply drops. “The first load we did on the first day is to [a monastery] with 500 children that hadn’t received any aid for 11 days.”

Not all of the work, however, has been met only with heartbreak.

“The second drop that we did … we found two children who were separated from their mother and we reunited them, and it was so wonderful to see that because those two had been separated from their mother for 13 days with no communication,” LaMeyer said. “This is not just about providing relief. It’s been reuniting family members.”

Despite an outpouring of support and no shortage of basic supplies, funds are running short, she said.

Together with her husband, Michael, and her sister, LaMeyer financed five days of helicopter drops through a small amount of donations and by paying for them personally. The three have exhausted their ability to pay.

And LaMeyer says she fears that the worst hardship for her native country could be yet to come.

“In Haiti, more people died after the [2010] earthquake than because of it,” she said. “I don’t want the same thing to happen to Nepal. I wish I could give every villager a cow and a goat and a few chickens. In Gorkha region, everyone has a Facebook account, but they don’t have food and not because they are poor, it’s because the livestock have died.”

Nevertheless, LaMeyer said she is undeterred.

She plans to rouse support from her friends and other contacts to raise money for helicopters for Timilsima to drop supplies and emergency relief funds. Then her sister, Maneesha Joshi, will take the baton when she swaps her Long Beach home for three weeks of relief efforts in Kathmandu this week.

“We moms can get it done,” LaMeyer said with a laugh.

Whereas her sister’s focus was on air drops, Joshi’s work will center on helping their mother clean and repair the school.

“My mom started the school with seven children,” Joshi said. “Now we have close to 400 children, but they’re poor. They don’t even have shoes to wear. She was always passionate about education. She was the only woman to be educated in the family.”

After the three weeks end, Joshi says she hopes to persuade her mother, who splits her time between staying in Nepal and staying in the United States, to stay in Long Beach for a while. Joshi and LaMeyer were both born in Nepal.

Continuing to raise funds will be a priority, she said. An online fundraiser on the website Giveforward has raised $15,779 of its $50,000 goal as of Saturday morning.

The funds will go to help pay for the helicopter drops and for repairs the school, Joshi said.

To donate, visit www.giveforward.com and search for “Mothers in Nepal for Earthquake Relief.”

Contact Greg Yee at 562-499-1476.
</text>