<url>
http://www.nationmultimedia.com/national/Situation-much-improved-after-relief-efforts-Thai--30259776.html
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Situation much improved after relief efforts : Thai aid team
</headline>

<text>
DESPITE the shortage of commodities in rural areas, the overall situation in Nepal two weeks after the devastating |earthquake is much improved, the first Thai government medical team reported over the weekend.

“The situation there is getting better, especially in Kathmandu. Shops have started to reopen and tourists have started coming back,” said Dr Chatchai Kraysubun from Chao Phya Abhaibhubejhr Hospital and |a member of the team dis-patched by the Public Health Ministry.

The 19-member medical emergency response team arrived back at Suvarnabhumi Airport on Saturday, following their fruitful humanitarian mission that started on April 29.

Many rural areas like Sipa Ghat, where the team was stationed, still lack necessary supplies as the transport infrastructure was destroyed in the quake, he said.

“Our operation in the area was successful. We treated many injured people in the rural area who couldn’t seek medical attention.

“We also had a psychiatric team to take care of the victims’ mental state, especially the children,” he added.

The team coordinated with the World Health Organisation and Nepalese authorities to hand over their operation to Nepal after Thailand’s direct participation ended.

The team also supported local clinics in regaining their ability to run services by themselves.

Second team now on site

The second team is now on site in Nepal, while the third team just left for Nepal.

The Medical Council of Thailand has also sent a medical team to Nepal.

Dr Sorarit Kiatfuengfoo from Deja Hospital said life in remote areas was still rough because of insufficient medicine, food and tents. State assistance has also not yet reached many areas.

“The main problem I found is that the Nepalese government seems to overlook these areas and pay more attention to the city, so many rural victims aren’t getting help from the government yet,” he said.

Sorarit said on Facebook that Tsum Valley, where his team was deployed, was cut off from the outside world. Supplies had to be airlifted in and the cost was prohibitive.

“We’re asking for donations in cash rather than in kind because transportation to Nepal is expensive and we can buy the things we need there.

“We also need money for the transportation cost to the rural areas,” he said.

The council’s teams would |stay on for at least three more months to ensure that the quake victims can pick up their lives again.

Donations can be made to the Kasikornbank account of Monton Kasantikul, number 695-2-31244-6, to procure daily staples, pay for transportation and rebuild the transportation network, he added.
</text>