<url>
http://www.stargazette.com/story/news/local/2015/05/10/nepal-earthquake-doctors/27090193/
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Two doctors with Corning roots help Nepal quake victims
</headline>

<text>
One Corning native now lives in Virginia and the other in North Carolina, but they both traveled to Nepal to treat the injured in the wake of a devastating earthquake.

Dr. Sunil Sharma (Photo: PROVIDED PHOTO)

When Dr. Sapana Pathak Adhikari heard of the April 25 earthquake that killed and maimed thousands in Nepal, she knew she had to find a way to help.

Adhikari, who grew up in the Corning area and now practices emergency medicine in Charlotte, N.C., is one of two doctors with local roots who rushed to the aid of the victims of the Nepal earthquake.

Painted Post native Dr. Sunil Sharma, who lives and practices emergency medicine in Winchester, Va., also packed his bags and traveled to the quake-ravaged region as soon as possible.

"When I initially heard about the earthquake, I was devastated. Having spent a month volunteering in a rural Nepali ER the year before, I was already quite familiar with the fragile medical system," Adhikari said. "I thought that my skills as an emergency medicine physician and my knowledge of the language and culture could be of some benefit, and so I immediately started researching ways to get on the ground in Nepal as soon as possible.

(Photo: TEAM RUBICON PHOTO)

"Several hours after first hearing about the earthquake, a fellow emergency medicine physician, who was active in coordinating international disaster responses, contacted me to see if I was interested in going to Nepal," she said. "Without hesitation, I agreed and left for Nepal a few hours later."

Adhikari, 39, is the daughter of Dr. Kamal and Jyoti Pathak, of Painted Post. Sharma is the son of Dr. Hari and Indra Sharma, also of Painted Post.

Adhikari attended Boston University and Boston University School of Medicine. Sharma, 52, graduated from Albany Medical College.

Adhikari returned home Friday. Sharma, who is still in Nepal and is expected to return to the United States on Tuesday, could not be reached for comment. But his father said his son has described the devastation he encountered during phone calls.

"He went to Nepal in a village near Kathmandu. There were a lot of houses broken and no help for water or medicine and also food," the elder Sharma said. "Something had to be done to improve the water system. Some people came out from under the roof and things had fallen on them. They had broken bones, head injuries, all sorts of things. He did very well. His wife and daughter told him not to go but he said 'I have to go.' I'm glad he went."

The doctors teamed up with Team Rubicon, a U.S.-based organization that unites the skills and experiences of military veteran with first responders to rapidly deploy emergency response teams in disasters.

The scenes of destruction that unfolded as they traveled the countryside tending to injured people were horrifying, Adhikari said.

"Parts of Kathmandu are destroyed. Sadly, the old historical downtown area, called Durbar Square, had much damage with complete collapse of five-story temples that were hundreds of years old," she said.

"Outside Kathmandu, we traveled to over 15 villages and saw massive destruction. We saw villages that had been completely wiped out," Adhikari said. "We saw huge cracks in the main highways, large boulders blocking roads, and landslides. In the first week after the quake, rain and colder temperatures, especially in the higher altitudes, made rescue efforts much harder. We noticed that due to the continued aftershocks, people were afraid. People, both in Kathmandu and in the villages, slept outside for several days for fear of another quake."

Sharma reported that the only hospital in the area where he is working is severely damaged and is non-functional. He estimated that it will take $30,000 to $40,000 just to repair the hospital.

This was the first experience with disaster relief for Adhikari, but she said it probably won't be her last.

"I would, without hesitation, take part in a project like this again," Adhikari said. "Although it was a very emotional experience for me — seeing people in need and trying to help everyone — it was one of the most gratifying I have ever had."

Follow Jeff Murray on Twitter @SGJeffMurray.

Read or Share this story: http://stargaz.tt/1Hb5Lmb
</text>