<url>
http://panow.com/article/513628/nepalese-community-sending-money-home-after-earthquake
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese community sending money home after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Many pieces of history in Kathmandu that Prince Albert’s Nepalese-born residents grew up with have been flattened.

The devastation caused by the April 25 earthquake reaches far beyond Kathmandu’s residents and the landmarks that Prince Albert’s Mark Tamang knows well. Some rural areas have been cut off from aid by landslides and difficult terrain.

Tamang was in Nepal last year, but said he knows next visit will be different.

“Now it’s totally changed because everything is rubble,” he said.

This includes the homes of his parents and brother.

“Everyone is safe, my family and relatives. But there is no house to stay in. Still they are staying outside in a tent,” Tamang said.

He said he’s hoping the government and international teams will rebuild houses and the city.

Right now what people need are the basics: dry food, water, and tents.

Tamang and about 16 people originally from Nepal now living in Prince Albert are raising money through Red Cross to do their part.

Tamang works in Waskesiu and said others work mainly in the food service industry, but this week they spent four hours collecting more than $1,000 donations. On Saturday they set up a table at Gateway Mall to continue their efforts.

Reflecting on the earthquake

Seeing the aftermath of the earthquake, which included a fallen city structure that had been built by a king, was difficult for Tamang.

The worst of it was not being able to communicate with family for about five days because phone lines were disconnected.

“It was so bad, we were crying. We were trying to call Nepal, we were trying to contact the family,” Tamang recalled.

Eventually they made contact through social media.

His brother briefed Tamang on the situation, saying the aftershocks kept them from returning home and because everything is covered in rubble – including food – it’s no longer usable.

Tamang recalled his brother seeing heavy rain in the days following. With no tents, the sounds of “crying, shouting and screaming” had a strong effect on Tamang.

“My heart is beating so fast because of those moments.”

Tamang has been keeping tabs on his family and has heard of powerful aftershocks still resonating in Nepal, even on Saturday morning.

“Some people are saying ‘I don’t even feel I am alive.’ So they are still dreaming. Their heads are still spinning,” he said.

Despite citing the more than 7,900 people who have died, countless others injured, and an increased chance of disease from people and animals who’ve died but can’t be reached, Tamang said things could be worse.

The earthquake hit during the day, which happened to be a national holiday, he said.

“If it was nighttime, I can’t imagine how many people would be killed.”

With his worries still very strong, Tamang and his Nepalese friends in Prince Albert are working to “support them as much as we can.”

They’re currently planning a supper event to raise more money to send for aid in Nepal.

Every dollar will be matched by the federal government until May 25.

[email protected]

On Twitter: @chelsealaskowsk
</text>