<url>
http://businesswireindia.com/news/news-details/apollo-hospitals-sends-team-medical-professionals-assist-earthquake-vi/43698
</url>

<date>
20150510
</date>

<headline>
Apollo Hospitals Sends Team of Medical Professionals to Assist Earthquake Victims in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Leading private healthcare provider Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals has pledged support to the victims of the Nepal earthquake. The hospital has deputed a medical team comprising specialists along with medical and paramedical staff, and a consignment of about 800 kg containing implants, medicines, medical consumables, etc. to Kathmandu on 28 April 2015.





The teams have been working in coordination with Om Hospitals, Kathmandu providing relief to the patients. The first team comprising of 3 orthopedic surgeons, a neuro specialist and 2 nurses returned yesterday from Nepal. They had carried 50 first aid kits, surgical consumables, instruments, food and utility items.





The Apollo team performed about 80 surgeries including spinal fixations and joint repairs, on patients ranging from 6 years to 96 years. The team also coordinated with other local hospitals including the Trauma Centre, Kathmandu to send their patients to Om Hospital, from where the team was operating.



“We have a long standing relationship with Nepal. In this hour of grief after the devastating earthquake, we have tried to extend all possible medical support. A multi-disciplinary medical team was sent to Kathmandu along with 800 kg of medical supplies. The surgeons have performed 80 surgeries over the last 7 days. Our deep sympathies and continuing support lies with the citizens of Nepal." said Mr. Jaideep Gupta, Managing Director, and Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals.





About Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals



Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, India’s first JCI accredited hospital, is a joint venture between the Government of Delhi and Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Limited. Commissioned in July 1996, it is the third super-specialty tertiary care hospital set up by the Apollo Hospitals Group. Spread over 15 acres, it houses 57 specialties with more than 300 specialists and more than 700 operational beds, 19 operation theatres, 138 ICU beds, round-the-clock pharmacy, NABL accredited laboratories, 24-hour emergency services and an active air ambulance service. Apollo Hospitals Delhi has the leading programme in kidney and liver transplant in the country. The first successful pediatrics and adult liver transplants in India were performed at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. The hospital is at the forefront of medical technology and expertise. It provides a complete range of latest diagnostic, medical and surgical facilities for the care of its patients. The Hospital has introduced the most sophisticated imaging technology to India with the introduction of 64 slice CT and 3 Tesla MRI, Novalis TX and the integrated PET Suite. Indraprastha Apollo has also pioneered the concept of preventive health check programmes and has created a satisfied customer base over decades. The Hospital has been consistently ranked amongst the best 10 hospitals in India by The Week survey for the past few years.





Photo Caption:

The team of medical professionals from Apollo Hospitals, Delhi in Nepal.

Team of medical professionals from Apollo Hospitals, Delhi operating on the earthquake victims in Nepal.​


</text>