<url>
http://blog.sfgate.com/culture/2015/05/14/himalayan-fair-this-weekend-will-benefit-nepal-earthquake-relief/
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Himalayan Fair this weekend will benefit Nepal earthquake relief
</headline>

<text>
















Photo: Mischa Ballard Image 1 of / 5 Caption Close Image 2 of 5 Performances at the fair will represent the entire Himalayan region. Performances at the fair will represent the entire Himalayan region. Photo: Susan Aach Image 3 of 5 All fundraising money raised at the event will go to earthquake relief efforts in Nepal. All fundraising money raised at the event will go to earthquake relief efforts in Nepal. Photo: Susan Aach Image 4 of 5 The Himalayan Fair will feature music, dance food and vendors. The Himalayan Fair will feature music, dance food and vendors. Photo: Mischa Ballard Image 5 of 5 Money will be raised through gate donations and a raffle, with a grand prize of round trip airfare to New Delhi. Money will be raised through gate donations and a raffle, with a grand prize of round trip airfare to New Delhi. Photo: Mischa Ballard Himalayan Fair this weekend will benefit Nepal earthquake relief 1 / 5 Back to Gallery

Explore Himalayan culture while helping Nepal earthquake relief efforts in North Berkeley this weekend.

Now in its 32nd year, the Himalayan Fair features arts, crafts, live music, dance and food from Nepal, Tibet, India, China and Bhutan. This year, a memorial tree will be available for posting names of victims of the April 25 earthquake. An area will be set aside for meditation and sharing of grief. Prayers for Nepal will be held both days at 1:30 p.m. There’s also a raffle (grand prize is round trip airfare to India) to benefit charities providing relief in Nepal.

“In this time of devastating tragedy we are committed to raising awareness and support for the rebuilding of the country we all love as well as enjoying the fabulous food, music, crafts, and culture of the region,” said Arlene Blum, founder of the fair.

In 1983, Blum and Tibetan Buddhist Monk Lama Kunga arranged the first Himalayan Fair when the two gathered Tibetan and Nepali residents and their friends in Berkeley. Many of the current organizers have close connections with Nepal.

“Right now Nepal desperately needs help,” said Rajesh Shrestha, a member the Himalayan Fair’s steering committee. Shrestha, owner of Aquamarine Enterprises in Haight-Ashbury, and will be selling silver jewelry at the fair.

Shrestha’s family is part of the Newar tribe, an indigenous people in Nepal’s Katmandu Valley. He lives in the San Francisco Bay Area with his wife and two children, but his parents, siblings and several close friends still live in Nepal.

“Our ancestors built for thousands of thousands of years, ancient temples, historical monuments,” he said. “Eighty percent of them collapsed. We are not in power now.”

Shrestha lost relatives and friends in the earthquake. He is now worried about getting charity money and money from governments to victims. Shrestha is on the board of directors for Virtue’s Children of Nepal, which provides shelter, education and care for orphans. He is going to Nepal next Wednesday to help with relief efforts.

Himalayan Fair vendors will sell shawls, jewelry, paintings and other types of crafts. Musical and dance programs will represent the entire Himalayan region. Food will include Indian curries, dumpling from Nepal and Tibet called momos and teas. There will be vegetarian items. Since Nepal and India are home to dozens of languages, attendees will be able to hear at least 30 different languages, according to Shrestha.

The event has raised more than $300,000 from gate donations and raffle sales since 1983. This year’s raffle has several prizes, with a grand prize of round trip airfare on Emirates Air to New Delhi, India. Tickets cost $5. All the money raised at the event will go to the following charitable organizations: Virtue’s Children, Nepal FREED, Sahaveta, American Nepal Medical Foundation, Chhatrapati Free Clinic, Gorkha Foundation, Seva Foundation and Give2Asia.

The fair is held from 10 a.m.-7 p.m. Saturday, May 16, and 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Sunday, May 17, at Live Oak Park at 1300 Shattuck Avenue, North Berkeley. Admission at the event is free, but gate donations will be accepted.

Shrestha said the fair is about Himalayan connections to the western world. “It’s for people who have been there or who are interested in going there, who want to research Himalayan things: cultural, social and linguistic,” he said.
</text>