<url>
http://www.thewestonforum.com/47996/weston-woman-helps-with-nepal-earthquake-recovery-efforts/
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Weston woman helps with Nepal earthquake recovery efforts
</headline>

<text>
When Linda and Gerry Fontaine of Weston woke up Saturday morning, April 25, and heard the news that a magnitude 7.8 earthquake had struck in Nepal, it rocked their world, too. It would be nearly a full day before they were able to reach their daughter, Amber Fontaine, 27, who had been trekking in Nepal for several weeks.

The Fontaines and their other daughter, Alana Fontaine, who lives in Oregon, were able to reach Amber by Skype, and they discovered she and her travel companion, David Speranza, 29, of Redding, were safe and unharmed in Pokhara, about 50 miles from the epicenter of the deadly quake.

Thousands of others in Nepal were not so lucky. At last count, more than 7,000 people lost their lives in the earthquake that centered near the capital city of Kathmandu, and there are reports that more than 10,000 people were injured.

Nepal is mostly in the Himalayan mountain range, nestled between India and China. Aside from its resident population of about 29 million, it is a popular destination for hikers and climbers from around the world, as well as for travelers who are intrigued by the region’s beauty, history and culture.

On the Saturday that the earthquake struck, Amber and David, a rock climbing guide, had already been in Nepal for about four weeks. For nearly three months before that, Amber, a 2005 Weston High School graduate who still lives in Weston, had been traveling through Thailand, Malaysia, and Myanmar on what has become for her “an annual backpacking pilgrimage.”

They had arrived in Pokhara just a few days earlier, after spending some time trekking through some of the more remote regions of the country. They still had two weeks of their vacation left, and they planned to go whitewater rafting with a group called Paddle Nepal, based in Pokhara.

Amber said they had gotten up early that morning, and so, at about 12:30, David was taking a nap and she was reading in their second-story room, “when all of a sudden everything started shaking … it was like being on rough seas, and it felt like it went on forever,” Amber said.

David was up immediately, and by the time they realized it was an earthquake, Amber said, things were shaking too violently to try to go outside. They stood in a door frame during the worst of the tremors, which she estimates lasted at least a full three to five minutes.

Amber said the Nepalese people are fairly accustomed to feeling tremors because the country sits on the boundary of two major tectonic plates, the Indo-Australian and the Asian. However, when she and David made it outside, the streets were filled with people and “they were all freaking out and saying they had never felt an earthquake so violent before,” Amber said.

The ground continued to tremble and buildings to sway for hours after the initial quake. All the buildings around them were cracked and damaged, and a few had crumbled, but, Amber said, most people in the streets were more concerned about relatives and friends in other areas, especially in Kathmandu, where the infrastructure is not as solidly built, and hard-to-reach rural areas.

People were scrambling to try to make cell phone calls. Amber managed to contact her sister in the United States before the cell tower in Kathmandu went down in an aftershock.

Electricity was turned off throughout most of the country for safety reasons after the earthquake — a regular occurrence in Nepal, Amber said — but it was restored when the government realized it was needed for recovery efforts and hospitals.

“We were really lucky we were in a relatively privileged area. We still had food, water and medical supplies,” Amber said.

She and David saw down the street that almost immediately people were collecting clothes and whatever other supplies they could gather to try to help those in more remote regions. “We thought, we can do that,” she said.

They realized they had money that they had planned to use on their now obviously canceled rafting trip, and they knew they could raise money quickly through social media from a relatively large network of friends and relatives. Amber set up a PayPal account, posted a few pictures and requests for help, and the money started coming in almost immediately from friends back in the United States who were seeing images and hearing reports of the devastation.

“I was overwhelmed to see how much people were willing to help,” Amber said.

Within just days, they had raised more than $4,000 in addition to their own money. They bought supplies and gave them to the rafting company, Paddle Nepal, which had a lot of resources like buses and trucks, plus a team of qualified guides.

“They got together supplies and equipment and went to places that were not being reached by foreign aid,” Amber said. A lot of the money that poured in in the wake of the quake “goes right into government pockets” and doesn’t help the people who need it most, she added.

Amber and David’s donations were able to help Paddle Nepal fill several buses with clothes, food, medical supplies, and more for those who were most affected by the devastation.

“The most special thing about Paddle Nepal is they focused on those that were not getting aid. … They risked their lives to go into danger zones to help those who wouldn’t have gotten help from anywhere else,” Amber said.

Friend found

For four days, Amber and David tried to reach their good friend Bikash, a porter from Bhaktapure they had met earlier on their trip. When they finally got in touch with him, they learned that most of his home had been destroyed, but he had survived and made his way to Kathmandu.

Amber and David made their way there, too. They donated a portion of the money they had raised to Bikash. “It felt good to be able to hand it directly to him,” Amber said.

They had anticipated having a hard time being able to leave Nepal after the quake, but they were able to fly out of Kathmandu during a “small window” when the airport was operational, and they are now back in Connecticut.

“We had a lot of luck on our side,” Amber said.

This week, on Tuesday, May 12, two more major earthquakes — a magnitude 7.3, followed about 30 minutes later by a 6.3 — hit Nepal east of Kathmandu near Mt. Everest.

For those wishing to make donations, Amber recommends going through sathinepal.org, an organization based in both Stratford, Conn., and Pokhara, Nepal.
</text>