<url>
https://uk.news.yahoo.com/uk-mulls-pull-chinooks-barred-nepal-123038280.html
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
UK Mulls Pull-Out Of Chinooks Barred By Nepal
</headline>

<text>
The UK government is to have "take it or leave it" talks with the Nepalese authorities over the next few days, as three RAF Chinooks continue to be denied entry to Nepal.

The heavy-lift helicopters, much-needed in the relief effort, were dispatched to Nepal two weeks ago.

They were flown, initially to India, in the belly of huge Antonov cargo planes.

Since then they have been stranded at Chandigarh Airbase north of Delhi, awaiting clearance to fly to Nepal.

The Nepalese government is said to be worried the powerful aircraft will blow roofs of fragile houses or even cause them to collapse when taking off or landing.

But a source familiar with the situation told Sky News that the reality was Nepal had "overstretched" itself in the days immediately after the earthquake.

The source said: "They were overwhelmed with offers of support and said yes to everything.

"Now they’re realising they don’t have the facilities to manage it all."

Other reports suggest that India and China are worried about foreign militaries flying close to their airspace.

The United States, however, has deployed its own heavy lift Osprey aircraft to Nepal.

The UK Government has said the situation is "disappointing".

A spokesman added: "UN agencies and other NGOs have indicated that additional helicopters are needed to deliver aid to remote areas inaccessible by road and the UK has sent the most appropriate equipment to support these efforts, including three Chinook helicopters."

Military experts point out the Chinooks have often flown in disaster zones, such as the Pakistan earthquake in 2005, and the crew are experienced operating in such scenarios.

The distinctive twin-rotor Chinooks can carry up to 70 people in extreme cases, such as relief operations.

They can fly for a number of hours without refuelling and land on awkward or mountainous terrain. They can also fly at high-altitude, a great advantage in Nepal.

As well as lifting people to safety, the Chinooks would be used to ferry aid to remote, hard-to-access villages.

Their crew of around 40 people, including engineers and pilots, are also stranded at the airfield north of Delhi.

Ordering the aircraft to return home would be an embarrassing decision for the UK Government, but the cost of keeping them idle on the ground has to be weighed up and it is understood patience is running out.

:: Nepal Earthquakes: Donations can be made to the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) appeal by texting 'SKY' to 70000 to give £5.
</text>