<url>
http://www.burnabynewsleader.com/news/update-burnaby-firefighters-in-nepal-to-assist-in-rescue-effort-1.1933578
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
UPDATE: Burnaby firefighters in Nepal to assist in rescue effort
</headline>

<text>
A large contingent of volunteers from the Burnaby fire department has arrived in Nepal to assist in rescue efforts following the massive earthquake Saturday.

The magnitude 7.8 quake, the death toll for which had reached more than 5,000 on Tuesday, collapsed countless buildings, including temples and heritage sites, in and around Kathmandu and triggered an avalanche that killed at least 18 at Mount Everest base camp.

By late Sunday, 18 Burnaby firefighters had volunteered to head overseas with the Canadian Medical Assistance Teams to assist in the search for survivors, said Burnaby fire chief Doug McDonald.

The group was to begin the almost 24-hour journey starting 2 a.m. Monday, then spend four days on the ground in Kathmandu before making the trip back.

"These members have volunteered their own time, they're paying their own way and what the department is offering them at this time is just equipment and supplies they could take with them to use in the search efforts," McDonald said.

Some of the members come from the Burnaby department's technical rescue team and rescue task force, and have been trained in urban search and rescue, but there were no restrictions on who could volunteer, he said.

The group will be tasked with searching for survivors within the rubble, he said. Their equipment will include cameras on wands that will allow for searching in confined spaces, and technical listening equipment to detect faint sounds such as tapping by people trapped inside collapsed buildings.

"That's why it's important to have them there as quickly as we can get them there. If they're there in a week or two, to be honest it becomes body recovery after a while."

The call for volunteers was spearheaded by retired Burnaby firefighter Mark Pullen, a member of the B.C. Disaster Dogs Society who was heading to Nepal with his trained rescue dog, McDonald said. The team from Burnaby will be joined by two firefighters from Mission, each with their own rescue dogs.

Pullen served in a similar capacity with rescue dogs in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina and in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake.

The dogs are trained to detect people still alive in the collapsed buildings, as well as those who have passed on, and to indicate the difference to their handlers.

"I'm extremely proud of the members volunteering to go into very dangerous conditions and it just shows the resolve of the Burnaby fire department and its members," said McDonald, "that they're willing to help anywhere and go anywhere at their own expense, basically to help out those that are having a tough time."

Families being supportive are just one example of how there are many people here at home helping to make the rescue effort happen.

The firefighters finally arrived in Nepal around 10 a.m. Tuesday (Vancouver time), said New Westminster resident Jacqueline Dairon whose husband, Burnaby firefighter Brad Dairon, called to let her know they'd made it to the Kathmandu airport.

When Brad got the call for volunteers, he first asked Jacqueline if they could manage without him helping out with their two daughters, aged three and five, particularly around daycare and activities.

"I said, 'if this is something you want to do I would make it happen,'" Jacqueline recalled.

All the grandparents are stepping up and their workplaces are being flexible to help smooth the way for the firefighters' rescue work, she said. This is the first overseas work Brad has done.

"I'm definitely nervous but those feelings are outweighed by how happy and proud I am that he's willing to do this and represent Burnaby fire department and show the world that people are out there willing to help."

She said handling all the logistics at home "pales in comparison to the efforts they're putting in. And there's just the sense of pride that I have that they put their hand up to help out and if there was ever a time to do it, now is the time."

In addition to those firefighters headed to Nepal, there are dozens of other Burnaby firefighters who are helping out by covering their shifts, noted Rob Lamoureux, president of Burnaby Firefighters Association Local 323.

All the firefighters' flights were donated by Cathay Pacific and Pacific Blue Cross donated travel medical insurance to help make the trip happen, Lamoureux said from Ottawa where he's attending a conference.

"It's what firefighters do," he said of the volunteer efforts. "It's kind of the old sentiment, when everyone's rushing out we're rushing in. It's just our mentality. We just want them to return safe and hopefully they can help out and save a few lives and make a difference."

wchow@burnabynewsleader.com

twitter.com/WandaChow
</text>