<url>
http://www.thecasket.ca/archives/45036
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Antigonish Friends of Nepal fundraiser continues
</headline>

<text>
Posted on May 14, 2015 by Corey LeBlanc [email protected]

Editor’s note: Interviews with the Antigonish Friends of Nepal members were conducted prior to the second earthquake.Dining out can be extra special Friday (May 15) at participating local restaurants.

As part of a fundraiser spearheaded by the Antigonish Friends of Nepal, eateries will be encouraging diners to make in-person or online contributions to the country.

“Nepalis need more than our prayers; they need our support to rebuild their lives and livelihoods,” Olga Gladkikh, a group member, said in an email interview.

Nepal has been struck by two major quakes in just more than two weeks; one April 25, which measured 7.8 on Richter scale, with the second at 7.3 on May 12.

Antigonish Friends of Nepal initiated its relief effort after the first quake, with people having ties to the country coming together to help out.

Along with the May 15 restaurant collection drive, the group has placed donation boxes in local businesses and churches (until May 22), with funds collected donated to the Canadian Red Cross Nepal Region Earthquake Fund.

“We hope that people will pause for a moment to reflect on how much we have and then pick up their smartphones or tablets and give online,” group member Nancy Peters said of the May 15 event.

She noted the United Nations has called for $415 million for “immediate relief” but only a fraction has been pledged.

“Each table of diners will also receive a postcard with a picture from Nepal and information about how to donate on the back,” Peters said.

“We’d be delighted if people would pass these postcards on to friends, or post it at work.”

Great transition

Gladkikh said her connection with Nepal dates back to 1990, when she began visiting graduates in her role with the Coady International Institute.

“Over the next six years I returned to witness the impact on the people of the country’s transition from monarchy to multi-party democracy,” she added.

Gladkikh worked with several organizations.

“I have lingering friendships that grew out of that period,” she noted.

Gladkikh said Coady graduates are “dedicated to making a real difference in the lived lives of Nepalis and the sacrifices they make just to reach the remote mountain villages they work in, where the challenges are many.”

“How many people do you know who would be willing to trek for three days just to reach their working area from home?”

Gladkikh said many graduates have let Coady know they survived the quake.

“Even those who have lost everything are out volunteering their services or mobilizing to get aid to those remote villages where they have established relationships with the villagers,” she added.

Coming together

Janette Fecteau, an Antigonish Friends of Nepal member, has been there twice, spending six to eight weeks both times.

“I went there basically as a tourist, but I was fortunate to come from Antigonish where we have the Coady International Institute,” she wrote in an email, noting through Coady she met many development workers from Nepal.

“I was able to visit several wonderful people in their homes and workplaces, meet their families and co-workers, which brought me to places most tourists don’t visit.

“I was struck by how hard people worked with what to my Western eyes looked like 18th-century technology,” she added.

On her first day in Kathmandu, Fecteau recalled seeing two men sawing metal pipe patiently using a two-person hacksaw.

Fecteau said it was apparent the people “cared deeply about improving the lives of the poorest and most disadvantaged.”

“They applied the same patience and dedication to their work in literacy, health, women’s groups, etc. that the famers did to their work,” she added.

Fecteau knew she, Gladkikh, Peters and others, had mutual Nepali friends.

“I reached out to find out if they had heard from them. Once the group of us started comparing notes, we quickly decided we wanted to do something to help,” she added.

Fecteau hasn’t heard from several friends, which she said is “really nerve-wracking.”

“Those I have heard from are busy working with earthquake victims, so they have not had time to write long emails. I only know they and their families are okay,” she said.

For our friends

Peters worked with the Centre for International Studies and Cooperation (CECI) in Nepal, from 1999 to 2001, where she travelled to different regions, including “remote communities where tourists seldom visit.”

“Once stories are no longer headline news, it’s easy to forget what’s happened so far away. The boxes are a little reminder,” she said of the effort.

“When we were distributing them to local businesses, a man commented that he already made a donation to the Canadian Red Cross Nepal Region Earthquake Fund because, ‘it can happen to us, too, and we’d want people to help us out.’”

Peters said the group is “delighted” so many restaurants and businesses have agreed to join the fundraising campaign.

“Like others in the Antigonish Friends of Nepal group, some of my happiest memories from my time in Nepal are of sitting with friends and sharing a meal,” she added.

Helping hand

Peters said donations can also be made at the Canadian Red Cross office, 36 Market Street; by phone and online.

She noted, until May 25, the Canadian government will match public donations.

“I feel it’s important to do what you can to help your friends,” Peters said.

“Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world, but wherever I went I was warmly welcomed by communities and families.

“Even when we arrived in the middle of the night, people would prepare tea and food, and sit up late to talk. Being in Nepal made me acutely aware of the meaning of hospitality,” she added.

Peters said the Antigonish Friends of Nepal campaign is “one small way of acknowledging this generosity and giving back.”
</text>