<url>
http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2015/may/13/marine-missing-helicopter-search-day2/
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Marine helicopter still missing in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
UPDATE: As of the last report from Nepal at 11:30 p.m. Wednesday night in San Diego, the missing Huey had not been found.

U.S. officials said they will have to replace two of the search helicopters as they need maintenance. The replacement aircraft will be on scene Friday and Saturday.

To date, the search for the missing Camp Pendleton UH-1Y Huey has been conducted using two UH-1Y Hueys, two MV-22 Ospreys, one Indian MI-17 and three Nepalese helicopters, in addition to one Nepalese special forces platoon and a battalion-sized ground element.

ORIGINAL STORY: As the second full day of searching began in Nepal, a U.S. military spokesman said they remain optimistic that a missing Camp Pendleton helicopter and the six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese troops aboard will be found.

As evening hit San Diego on Wednesday, four Marine Corps search aircraft were spinning up in Kathmandu to launch, said Maj. Dave Eastburn, spokesman for U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii.

“Giving up is not an option,” Eastburn said. “We are exhausting all of our resources. Our No. 1 priority is to get our guys home.”

The UH-1Y Huey from Pendleton’s Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 went missing Tuesday afternoon as it was dropping off supplies to earthquake victims near Charikot, Nepal.

The United States responded to Nepal’s massive April 25 earthquake by 13 sending Marine Corps and Air Force aircraft to deliver supplies and evacuate victims.

A second significant and deadly quake Tuesday has further complicated the relief effort.

The Huey – whose crew members have not been named by the Defense Department – may have had fuel problems.

An Indian helicopter in the air nearby at the time heard radio chatter along those lines.

The austere, jagged terrain in that part of the Himalaya Mountains is making the search a difficult one, Eastburn said. The area is between Kathmandu and the border with China.

Because of the rugged landscape, the helicopter could have landed in a low area and the Marines may not be able to get a beacon or radio signal out, the Pentagon has said.

Two Hueys and two Marine MV-22 Osprey aircraft searched for a cumulative 29 flight hours on Wednesday in Nepal – without any luck.

While the search effort is their top priority, officials said, those aircraft are also helping with the relief effort.

The Hueys evacuated 14 Nepalese locals affected by Tuesday’s quake, while the Ospreys supported the movement of search-and-rescue teams looking for earthquake survivors.

The Camp Pendleton helicopter was chosen for the Nepal relief mission because it and others from the squadron were in the Philippines for training exercises when the first quake hit.
</text>