<url>
http://themoderatevoice.com/205031/nepal-helping-hand-continues/
</url>

<date>
20150514
</date>

<headline>
Nepal: ‘Helping Hand’ Continues (Update)
</headline>

<text>
Update:

Efforts continue to find the missing U.S. Marine Corps UH-1Y Huey helicopter, as well as to provide humanitarian aid and disaster relief for the country of Nepal.

From a Joint Task Force 505 News Release:

So far, two UH-1Y Hueys, two MV-22 Ospreys, one Indian Mi-17 and three Nepalese helicopters have searched for the Huey that went missing May 12 near Charikot, Nepal, while conducting humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations. Augmenting the aerial search are Nepalese troops — a special forces platoon and a battalion-sized element.

U.S. Marine Huey and Osprey aircraft delivered 174,706 pounds of emergency relief supplies since Operation Sahayogi Haat began. The supplies included plastic sheeting, shelter kits, blankets, food, water and medical materials. In addition to delivering aid, task force-assigned aircraft have conducted 459 personnel transports and 52 casualty evacuations.

JTF 505 will replace the two Hueys operating in Nepal to allow for routine maintenance. One Huey assigned to Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 is scheduled to arrive in Nepal Friday, May 15.

Also, one Huey assigned to HMLA-269 will arrive in Nepal Saturday, May 16. Both aircraft will be transported using U.S. Air Force C-17 Globemaster III aircraft assigned to the 535th Airlift Squadron on Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii. All aircraft are operating in support of relief efforts.

Original post:

Today we were shocked and grieved by the Amtrak train crash tragedy in Philadelphia.

Even though our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this crash and their loved ones, it seems almost irreverent to discuss another tragedy at the other side of the world.

But the sad reality is that after the two back-to-back, monstrous earthquakes that have hit the tiny country of Nepal, people are still suffering and probably still dying there.

Fortunately, people, organizations and governments are also still lending a Sahayogi Haat.

Here are some new images of that “Helping Hand” and (immediately below) of those helping arms.

U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jessica Gomez-Hickman holds a young earthquake victim before placing her in an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 12, 2015. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Gunnery Sgt. Ricardo Morales

A U.S. Air Force airman helps an earthquake victim into an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal. The airman is assigned to Joint Task Force 505, which is providing aid in Nepal.



U.S. Marines help a Nepalese man to a triage at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015.

Nepalese service members load relief supplies into a U.S. Marine Corps UH-1Y Venom helicopter from Joint Task Force 505 in Nepal, May 11, 2015.

Nepali soldiers unload aid and relief supplies delivered by a U.S. Marine Corps UH-1Y Venom helicopter assigned to Joint Task Force 505 in Nepal’s Kavrepalanchowk district May, 11, 2015, during Operation Sahayogi Haat. U.S. Marine Corps photo by Staff Sgt. Jeffrey D. Anderson

But our troops have concerns for our own men, too:

U.S. Marines prepare a UH-1Y Huey helicopter to begin a search and rescue mission from the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, Nepal, May 13, 2015. A UH-1Y Huey assigned to Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, carrying six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers, went missing while conducting humanitarian assistance after the 7.3 aftershock.

Lead photo: U.S. Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Jessica Gomez-Hickman, from Joint Task Force 505, holds a young earthquake victim before loading her into an ambulance at a medical triage area at Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal. (U.S. Marine Corps photo by Gunnery Sgt. Ricardo Morales/Released)

All photos and captions: DOD

Click here for reuse options!
</text>