<url>
https://au.news.yahoo.com/thewest/wa/a/27357936/perth-families-desperate-for-nepal-news-after-quake/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Perth families desperate for Nepal news
</headline>

<text>
Up to 17 West Australians are still missing in Nepal after a massive earthquake hit the nation yesterday.

The death toll from the massive earthquake has passed 2200 and there remains a desperate search for survivors buried under rubble.

National police spokesman Kamal Singh Ban says the number known to have died in Nepal has risen to 2,152 with 4,629 people injured while officials in India say the toll there stands at 57.

Chinese state media said 17 people had been killed in the Tibet region.

Hospitals were so stretched on Sunday that medics had set up tents outside the buildings to treat patients.

Perth family of community health worker Karen Jury haven’t heard from her since April 23 when she last posted online.

Ms Jury’s mother Heather said her daughter had travelled to Nepal in September last year to volunteer at a disabled and women’s centre in Kathmandu.

The 44-year-old had since completed that volunteering stint and was now travelling around the country before intending to fly home in the coming weeks.

NEPAL EARTHQUAKE LATEST | LIVE REPORT

Mrs Jury said Karen’s last online post on April 23 featured photos from the Mustang region and she had indicated she was headed to Jomsom.

She said she was worried but hopeful.

“We’re hoping that she’s holed up and it’s just communication that’s stopping her from getting in contact with us.

“I did put on her Facebook, if she can ring reverse charge when she is able to get to a phone and I’ve told her on Facebok that I have listed her with international Red Cross. She’ll be aware of the fact that we are worried,” Mrs Jury said.

A powerful, magnitude 6.7 aftershock has shaken the Kathmandu area of Nepal a day after the massive earthquake devastated the region.

The US Geological Survey says Sunday's aftershock registered at a shallow depth of 10 kilometres.

Nearly 350 Australians are unaccounted for on the day after the massive earthquake struck. The death toll is now over 2200 but no Australian deaths have been recorded.

Teenagers and older, experienced travellers are on the list of unaccounted for Australians. It includes tourists, volunteers and climbers.

By 10am on Sunday, worried relatives and friends had listed 66 names on The Red Cross's Family Links website.

Between 15 and 20 WA people in Nepal have not yet made contact to say they are safe.

But one Perth family that had launched a social media campaign for news of their loved one is celebrating after finally hearing that she is safe.

Ballantyne Forder had been volunteering at an orphanage in Nepal when a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit.

Her family spent Sunday both trying to find out her whereabouts and appealing on social media and mainstream media for news of her location.

MORE

FRANTIC SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS

6.7 AFTERSHOCK

RESCUE CHOPPERS REACH EVEREST

MANY AUSSIES MISSING

AUSTRALIANS IN QUAKE-HIT NEPAL

AID DISPATCHED

The family of a 21-year-old Burns Beach man who was missing in Nepal with his girlfriend have expressed their relief at finding out the couple are alive and safe.

Callumn Shally and his girlfriend Shannen Wynne have been travelling in India and Nepal since February and completed an eight day trek through Annapurna on Friday.

That was the last time the couple’s families had contact with them until 11am this morning when they managed to get a Facebook message back to Perth.

In the message Mr Shally told his family the couple were about 180km from Kathmandu and while they did feel the earthquake, were safe and well.

They still fear for their friend Billie Forder who was with them until Friday when they went off in their own directions.

Mr Shally’s father Ray said he felt jubilation knowing his son wasn’t caught up in the devastation.

He and the 21-year-old’s mother Sharen said they had experienced a difficult 14 hours just “not knowing” what had happened and where Callumn was.

“We saw it on the tv and we knew he was in that region but we didn’t know what was going on,” Ray Shally said.

They said their thoughts were now with Billie’s family as well as with the other Australians and other international tourists who were experiencing the same problems in getting messages back to their loved ones.

A 59-year-old woman and 18-year-old man from Melbourne, Zachary Sheridan, 20, from Adelaide, and a 43-year-old man are also among the Australians missing on the Red Cross website where family and friends can post names of the missing. Zachary Sheridan's brother Hugh, who is an actor, posted this photo of them on his Facebook page as he appealed for information.

Sydney-born film-maker Zyra McAuliffe is also missing in Nepal and her friends are appealing on social media for her.

Liam Coburn Oliver, 18, and his aunt Dianne Joy Coburn, 59, are believed to be among the missing, AAP reports. Liam's brother Darcy Oliver says on Twitter that he is searching for information about Liam, who was travelling from Change, in Nepal's east, to Dharpani on the Annapurna Circuit.

Alyssa Azar from Toowoomba in Queensland is also climbing Mount Everest and was aiming to be the youngest Australian to climb to the top of the summit. The following message was posted on Facebook since the quake to tell her loved ones she is ok and is staying positive. It said: "There was an earthquake and avalanche at the foot of Everest today.

"Alyssa has contacted us and let us know that she was out climbing when this happened but is back at Base Camp now safe and sound. "She is feeling good and waiting to see what results come from this. A few climbers have been freaked out which is understandable. This is just a reminder that no one ever 'conquers' Everest or any mountain.

"Mother Nature is in control and the climbers must manage themselves and their state of mind in order to do the best they can. "Thanks for those who have messaged to check on Alyssa."

Experienced mountaineers said panic erupted at base camp which had been "severely damaged", while one described the avalanche as "huge".

"Huge disaster. Helped searched and rescued victims through huge debris area. Many dead. Much more badly injured. More to die if not heli asap," tweeted Romanian climber Alex Gavan from base camp.

Historic tower collapses

Kathmandu was severely damaged, and the historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among buildings brought down. At least a dozen bodies were taken away from the ruins of the 19th-century tower, according to an AFP photographer who saw similar scenes of multiple casualties throughout the city.

"It was difficult to breath, but I slowly moved the debris. Someone then pulled me out. I don't know where my friends are," Dharmu Subedi, 36, who was standing outside the tower when it collapsed, said from a hospital bed. At least 42 people were known to have died in India, including 30 in the eastern state of Bihar, while buildings in the capital New Delhi had to be evacuated.

The United States Geological Survey said the shallow quake struck 77 kilometres (48 miles) northwest of Kathmandu at 0611 GMT, with walls crumbling and families racing outside their homes. The quake tore through the middle of highways in the capital and also caused damage to the country's only international airport which was briefly closed. Kari Cuelenaere, an official at the Dutch embassy, said the impact had swept the water out of a swimming pool at a Kathmandu hotel where Dutch national day was being celebrated.

"It was horrible, all of a sudden all the water came up out of the pool and drenched everyone, the children started screaming," Cuelenaere told AFP.

"Some parts of the city fell down, there was dust rising... There were many (rescue) helicopters." Aftershock tremors could be felt more than two hours after the initial quake. USGS initially measured the quake at 7.5 magnitude and later adjusted it to 7.8, with a depth of 15 kilometres. Nepal and the rest of the Himalayas are particularly prone to earthquakes because of the collision of the Indian and Eurasia plates.

The thrust of the India plate beneath Eurasia generates a large amount of seismic activity, the USGS says on its website.

/region

Tremors felt across region

A spokesman for Nepal's home ministry said the government had released around $500 million as emergency funds for rescue operations. India dispatched two military transport planes to help with the rescue and relief efforts and there were similar offers from around the region, including Sri Lanka and Pakistan.

The US Agency for International Development (USAID) said a disaster response was being flown to Nepal and that the Obama administration had authorised an initial $1 million "to address immediate needs."

In Europe, Britain, Germany, Norway and Spain also pledged support and assistance. Chinese President Xi Jinping sent a message of condolences to his Nepalese counterpart Ram Baran Yadav and offered to provide assistance. China's official Xinhua news agency said that 13 people, including an 83-year-old woman, were killed in the Tibet region.

The area has a history of earthquakes, with a 6.8 magnitude quake that hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people. A magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and eastern India in 1934.
</text>