<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/the-press/christchurch-life/68447974/School-prayer-flags-fly-for-Nepal
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
School prayer flags fly for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
School prayer flags fly for Nepal

Supplied Prayer flags have been created by St Patrick's catholic primary school for Nepal, after the country's 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

Children at a Christchurch school are hoping their prayers blow over to help the people of Nepal.

Often found strung along mountain ridges and peaks in the Himalayas, colourful prayer flags are flying high at St Patrick's School in Bryndwr.

Tibetan Buddhists for centuries planted flags outside their homes and places of spiritual practice for the wind to carry the positive vibrations across the countryside. Prayer flags are said to bring happiness, long life and prosperity to the flag creator and all those close to it.

Pupils at the school have prepared 160 prayer flags for those affected by the 7.9 magnitude earthquake that hit on April 25.

"Please look after the people who are in Nepal because the earthquake destroyed their town. It used to be nice and beautiful but now it's destroyed. And please watch over the people who died," wrote Lydia Shaskey, 7.

Lydia said she felt "really sad" when she heard about the earthquake.

Ten year-old Grace Farrell said she hoped her flag would help look after any "loved ones" who had died in the earthquake, and also protect those left behind.

"When I was writing it I was thinking about how all the people would have felt."

She said it made her feel good knowing that they could recover and "feel well" soon with the help of their fundraising.

Principal Tom Wallis said pupils drew on their own earthquake experiences, and these were reflected in some of the flags. The flags would be sent to Nepal at the end of the term, and to Caritas Nepal Father Pius Perumana S.J after a time spent hung at school.

The school also raised over $400 through a mufti day for the catholic non-profit organisation, Caritas, and its emergency Nepal appeal.

"It doesn't seem that much but over there it can do a lot for a country like that," says pupil George Baker, 12.

George said it must have been "pretty scary" for those caught up in the earthquake, and especially when they did not know what was going on.

Alexandra Turton, 12, said Christchurch was lucky after the earthquakes, because "we had all the care we needed".

"But they don't."

George said he would like to see the funds go towards help to rebuild the community.

Alexandra wanted schools to be a priority so children could still have an education.

A St Margaret's College pupil, who was caught up in the earthquake while on a school expedition, was able to shed light on the situation to the school children.

Caritas approached principals, students and school communities for their emergency appeal for Nepal. Caritas Aotearoa New Zealand has committed an initial $50,000 for the immediate recovery efforts, including shelter, food and water needs.

Wallis said it was good for schools like theirs to know that the appeal funds would be used for the right purposes.

- The Press
</text>