<url>
http://www.independent.ie/entertainment/the-pleasure-list-go-for-goal-with-rachel-31207044.html
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
The pleasure list: Go for Goal with Rachel
</headline>

<text>
The great work done by Goal Ireland is an on-going triumph, but cannot keep pace with the needs of those who depend upon its assistance without help and support from the public.

The great work done by Goal Ireland is an on-going triumph, but cannot keep pace with the needs of those who depend upon its assistance without help and support from the public.

And so hats off to Rachel Allen, who is hosting a summer lunch on May 20th at 12pm in the rather glorious surrounds of Sophie's Bar on the fifth floor of the new Dean Hotel on Harcourt Street, with proceeds going to Goal. With a Champagne reception on the terrace on arrival, followed by a fabulous three-course meal of Rachel's devising and a fashion show hosted by The Design Centre, along with music, prizes, goodie bags, not to mention the chance to chat with friends and enjoy Rachel's company, the price tag of €120 seems entirely reasonable. Add to that the excellent work that Goal do - particularly in earthquake-devastated Nepal at the moment - and the fact that all monies raised will go to help their efforts, and this suddenly seems a clear and obvious choice.

www.goalglobal.org Creativity in numbers at Dun Laoghaire pop-up Throughout the month of May, a collaboration between Irish designers will appear in Dun Laoghaire, where nine artists have come together at No 61 Upper George's Street to showcase their craft and design work. The Creative Collective group was founded by Ann Turpin and Katie Woollett in 2010, with a view to showing the creations of selected designer and makers. And so Ann Turpin's hand-painted silk scarves are juxtaposed with Jo Kelly's eclectic mix of cheering rag dolls, pictured, and animals. Matthew Croker's newly-developed wooden homeware designs complement Paul Woods' native and sustainable, richly-coloured exotic wooden boxes, while Mary MacNeill's fine silver jewellery sets off Katie Woollet's semi-precious stone pieces. David Stephenson's atmospheric photography sits alongside Lucinda Robertson's colourful Cinders Glass studio art glass, and Susan Lynch's unique beauty products for dogs.

www.facebook.com/ CreativeCollectiveIreland Over to Orla for new style Orla Keily's signature design must be as iconic as Burberry's check or Pucci's prints at this stage, and so it is interesting to watch the evolution of this design, for example into something discreet and embossed, a style such as that found on her latest collection for Kilkenny Design. Using leather and patent leather, Orla Kiely's new range includes a gorgeous zip wallet in lemon or pink leather, and - our favourite - a small-structured leather bag in rich brown, all picked out with the classic pattern, either embossed or punched, and a distinctly new season spring/summer feel. A designer who credits her grandmother as the significant creative influence in her life, who began with hats and moved inexorably through to bags, clothes, accessories, fragrance, homewares (including a buggy and some very cute watering cans) and stationery, Orla Keily by now is a one-stop-shop for almost every form of elegance. Indeed, she recently signed up to create a range of bins for Brabantia; this may be exactly what every home needs. So all the more reason to pop into the Kilkenny Shop fast and pick up one of her latest pieces.

www.kilkennyshop.com Lauryn Rose shines bright and beautiful like a diamond Lauryn Rose jewellery stands out for all the right reasons. First, the glamorous, glittering quality of the pieces, followed by the ethical nature of this dynamic new e-boutique. Inspired by the story of a young girl of the same name, LaurynRose.com donates 10% of the profit of every sale directly to Laura Lynn Children's Hospice, to help vulnerable Irish children who badly need it. Drawing influence from the latest couture trends, along with an understanding and appreciation for design and quality, LaurynRose.com bridges the gap between high-end and high-street fashion. The collections combine modern glamour with classic style and elegance, particularly the new Summer Cocktail Collection and Dusk until Dawn Glamour Collection, including exquisite hand-crafted cocktail rings, pendants and two-piece drop earrings, each piece boasting high grade sterling silver, twisted and flowing elegantly to merge with the center stone setting.

www.laurynrose.com

Sunday Indo Living
</text>