<url>
http://www.todayonline.com/singapore/todays-brief-monday-may-11
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
TODAY’s brief, Monday, May 11
</headline>

<text>
Typhoon-hit Philippines on high alert

The Philippines is on high alert after a powerful typhoon slammed into the north-eastern tip of the archipelago yesterday (May 10), as about 2,500 residents in the provinces of Cagayan and Isabella huddled in shelters following warnings by officials for residents to evacuate coastal and mountainous villages. The Category 5 Typhoon Noul, packing winds of 185kph and gusts of up to 220kph, made landfall in Cagayan province’s coastal town of Santa Ana late yesterday afternoon. While no casualties or damage were immediately reported, the typhoon was expected to trigger landslides and flash floods in parts of the Cagayan Valley, the weather bureau said.

Parliament to debate regulation of third-party taxi-booking apps

Laws to regulate third-party cab-booking apps will be debated in Parliament. The proposed legislation would confer wide-ranging powers on the authorities to, for instance, amend, add to or revoke codes of practice for specific providers, or across the industry. The Third-Party Taxi Booking Service Providers Bill will also require third-party apps to register with the Land Transport Authority before operating here, failing which they will be fined up to S$10,000 or jailed up to six months. And the proposed framework spells out the conditions registered providers must comply with, such as dispatching only licensed taxis and drivers and providing information on fare rates upfront to commuters.

Update to be given on Singapore’s assistance to Nepal

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) will provide an update on the assistance Singapore has rendered to Nepal following the April 25 earthquake. Two Members of Parliament have filed questions on how the Republic has helped the quake-hit country in its recovery efforts. On Saturday night, the 126-member contingent from the Singapore Civil Defence Force and Singapore Police Force returned home following their relief efforts in Nepal.

Roy Ngerng back in court for pre-trial conference

Blogger Roy Ngerng, who was found to have defamed Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, will be back in court for a pre-trial conference. Ngerng was found to have defamed Mr Lee in a blog post last May that alleged misappropriation of the money paid by Singaporeans into the Central Provident Fund. So far, Ngerng has been ordered to pay for legal costs, but damages to be paid to Mr Lee have yet to be assessed.

Pressure on Najib mounts over 1MDB

The pressure on Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak continues to mount over the debt-ridden state investment vehicle 1 Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB). He insisted yesterday that allegations that money from a Muslim pilgrims saving fund (Lembaga Tabung Haji, or LTH) had been used to bail out 1MDB were not true. This came after criticism from both ruling coalition Barisan Nasional component parties and the opposition that the purchase of a parcel of land by LTH from 1MDB last week was to help the investment vehicle stay afloat. Addressing a crowd in Sabah, the premier also resisted calls for him to resign over 1MDB’s disastrous performance.

Pages
</text>