<url>
http://news.stv.tv/north/1320127-firefighters-from-aberdeen-return-home-after-nepal-earthquake-search/
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Firefighters return home after Nepal earthquake rescue effort
</headline>

<text>
John Aitchison, Danny Gall, Steve Nicoll, Garry Caroll, Martin Vardy and Martyn Ferguson made the 4500-mile trip.

SFRS

Six Scots firefighters who joined the search for survivors in the aftermath of the Nepal earthquake have returned home.

John Aitchison, Danny Gall, Steve Nicoll, Garry Caroll, Martin Vardy and Martyn Ferguson made the 4500-mile trip from Aberdeen as part of the UK International Search and Rescue (UKISAR) team.

UKISAR was dispatched after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit the south Asian nation on April 25. The death toll has risen above 8000, with more than 18000 injured and hundreds missing.

The firefighters were joined by five-year-old search dog Diesel.

SFRS

His handler, Gary Caroll, said: “It was all a rush when the call came and I was looking forward to being able to help people and putting the training Diesel’s had into action.

“On the ground we’ve seen total destruction in some of the outlying areas of Nepal - most buildings are affected in some way. I saw a lot of buildings that have collapsed. We’ve also seen buildings partially collapsed and landslides. A lot of people are under tents or covers because they are too scared to be in the buildings.

SFRS

SFRS

“Diesel and I were tasked to search two buildings. He coped well in Nepal - he’s stayed calm and relaxed. He was fine on the plane over and generally being here doesn’t seem to have fazed him - he’s just the same as at home.

“He got his fur clipped a few weeks ago during an exercise in France so he was ready to cope with the heat.

SFRS

SFRS

“Working with a dog is very rewarding and they can make a difference to our work. The dogs can help identify casualties, which are an extra tool for the team. We’ve got a very close bond. We’ve been through this together - I’m looking out for him and I think he’s looking out for me.”

SFRS

The UKISAR team have helped repair a hospital badly damaged by the quake and the 46 aftershocks which followed it. They have also assisted villagers in some of the most remote areas of the country.

Feedback: We want your feedback on our site. If you've got questions, spotted an inaccuracy or just want to share some ideas about our news service, please email us on web@stv.tvweb@stv.tv.

Download: The STV News app is Scotland's favourite and is available for iPhone from the App store and for Android from Google Play. Download it today and continue to enjoy STV News wherever you are.

Join in: For debate, chat, comment and more, join our communities on the STV News Facebook page or follow @STVNews on Twitter.

Updates: Would you like STV’s latest news update in your inbox every morning? Choose from our range of regular e-newsletters here.
</text>