<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Nepal-recalls-envoy-says-it-wont-impact-India-ties/articleshow/52214706.cms
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Nepal recalls envoy, says it won't impact India ties
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI: Even as it officially asked its ambassador Deep Upadhyay to return, Nepal Tuesday played down the strife with New Delhi saying the envoy's recall was an internal matter of Nepal which will have no impact on ties with India.After receiving a written communication from his government seeking his recall, Upadhyay sought time with PM Narendra Modi to thank him for India's cooperation in helping him perform his duties. Upadhyay said he is going to return to Nepal on Sunday."Upadhyay was sent a letter on Monday asking him to return within 2 weeks. Please remember this is not the first time Nepal has recalled its ambassador to India. This is just an internal matter of Nepal and we don't see how it will impact our ties with India," Nepal foreign ministry spokesperson Tara P Pokharel told this newspaper."You are free to draw your own conclusion but obviously the Nepal government did not want him to continue anymore as ambassador to India," he added. Pokharel did not comment on what might have caused the postponement of President Bidya Devi Bhandari's visit to India.He described as baseless rumours that Nepal was looking to declare India's ambassador to Nepal a persona non grata. Upadhyay though said here that he did not want to leave on a bitter note and thanked his own government too for their "support". The envoy warned India though that the economic blockade of Nepal had created "negativity" last year in the minds of the people of Nepal.While he blamed Nepal's internal power politics for the meltdown in ties, Upadhyay said India could have done more to dilute the impact of the economic blockade on Nepal. "The geography is such that Nepal cannot grow economically without India's support. Things are back to normal now but the blockade brought many hardships to the people. In fact, even after the blockade ended people resorted to hoarding for a while because they were not sure that it wouldn't happen again," he told TOI. He thanked India though for "going out of its way" to help reconstruction efforts in Nepal after the earthquake last year.The envoy is likely to make the same point before Modi when he meets him. A political appointee, Upadhyay lost the confidence of the government led by PM K P Sharma Oli as he was seen as having played a role in attempts to broker an alliance - between opposition party Nepali Congress and P K Dahal Prachanda led Maoists - which threatened to bring down the Oli government.Upadhyay met foreign secretary S Jaishankar over lunch Tuesday. He made the same point that India needed to be sensitive to the concerns of Nepal people who depend on India even for basic necessities."The past incidents should be forgotten as bad dreams and both sides should work towards repairing and mending the ties," Upadhayay said later at a press conference. On India's demand for making the new Nepal Constitution more inclusive, Upadhyay said any amendment could only be effected with 2/3rd majority in Parliament. Upadhya's Nepali Congress party Tuesday accused Oli government of "vitiating the environment of consensus" by recalling the envoy, reports from Nepal said.
</text>