<url>
http://www.antaranews.com/en/news/98892/nepal-urges-indonesian-humanitarian-hospital-to-function-three-additional-months
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Nepal urges Indonesian humanitarian hospital to function three additional months
</headline>

<text>
Nepal urges Indonesian humanitarian hospital to function three additional months

Jakarta (ANTARA News) - Nepal hopes that the field hospital, established as part of the Indonesian humanitarian aid, can function for three additional months in order to help victims of the 7.9-magnitude earthquake, Deputy Foreign Minister A.M. Fachir stated.



Speaking here on Monday, Fachir stated that Indonesia will continue with its humanitarian missions in Nepal as long as needed.



"Of course, we will continue to help because our first mission is to offer humanitarian aid. As a matter of fact, they requested whether our field hospital could function for three more months," he affirmed.



However, the Indonesian government is still evaluating the request by checking the availability of remaining logistics.



Moreover, the deputy pointed out that the rescue mission in Nepal is also being conducted.



The Indonesian humanitarian and evacuation team continues to cooperate with the government and authorities of Nepal, Fachir revealed.



Meanwhile, Director of the Protection of Indonesian Citizens and Indonesian Legal Entities of the Foreign Affairs Ministry Lalu Muhammad Iqbal remarked that Indonesias humanitarian aid in Nepal is considered to be the most comprehensive.



"For humanitarian assistance, we have focused on the provision of hospital tents and surgical equipment. We also brought along a doctor. Our assistance was considered the most thorough," Iqbal stated.



According to the ministrys official, while preparing humanitarian aid, which was part of the earthquake disaster relief efforts in Nepal, teams from Indonesia recollected their experience during the aftermath of the 5.9-magnitude earthquake in Yogyakarta to determine the required form of assistance.



"We learnt from our post-earthquake experience in Yogyakarta and Aceh. As many people had suffered fractures then, we sent a number of orthopedic specialists," Iqbal explained.



The humanitarian aid brought by the Indonesian team comprised food, medical equipment and supplies, and medicines, he affirmed.



The Indonesian government had sent a relief team to Nepal with two main tasks of delivering humanitarian aid to the people of Nepal and evacuating Indonesian citizens there.



The humanitarian assistance team coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comprised the ministrys staff along with personnel of the National Disaster Management Agency (BNPB), the Indonesian Military, and the Indonesian Red Cross (PMI).(*)


</text>