<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/care-distributes-australian-aid-relief-supplies-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
CARE distributes Australian aid relief supplies in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Following the devastation of the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck Nepal on 25 April, CARE has now distributed hundreds of relief supplies provided by the Australian Government to families across hardest-hit Gorkha district.

Two Royal Australian Air Force C17 aircraft landed in Kathmandu on 30 April, carrying hundreds of tarpaulins, blankets, hygiene kits and water purification tablets. CARE aid workers immediately dispatched these supplies to villages throughout Gorkha, close to the quake’s epicentre.

“Since this devastating earthquake hit, our team has been working tirelessly to get emergency relief to survivors as quickly as possible,” said CARE Australia CEO, Dr Julia Newton-Howes.

“With many families still sleeping outside in freezing temperatures after their homes were destroyed, these shelter kits, provided by the Australian Government, have been critical in providing immediate protection to families in desperate need.”

CARE Australia is one of six international aid organisations partnering with the Australian Government’s Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade to provide short-term and long-term relief to survivors of the devastating earthquake. This support, together with support from the Australian public, ensures CARE can reach more people affected by the quake as quickly as possible.

“The Australian aid supplies we are distributing throughout Gorkha will mean that many hundreds of families will be better protected from the elements as they start to rebuild their lives,” said Dr Julia Newton-Howes.

More than 7,000 people have now been confirmed killed and it is estimated that over 500,000 houses have been damaged or destroyed across Nepal.

“People in the remote villages have literally lost everything and are in desperate need of help but are very difficult to access,” said Lex Kassenberg, CARE Country Director in Nepal. “Our team drove for four hours and hiked three hours to reach a village in Sindhupalchowk to find it completely flattened.

“But CARE is starting reach these areas with critical items like food and shelter. People are very frightened of the upcoming monsoon season, so shelter is a major priority for CARE.”

Over the next month CARE plans to distribute weather resistant emergency shelter to 30,000 people in preparation for the monsoon rains. In the coming week, vital food and shelter items are being distributed to villages in Sindhupalchowk and Dhading.

$95 can provide food for 15 days and $280 can provide emergency shelter to a family. Donate to CARE’s Nepal Earthquake Appeal today.
</text>