<url>
http://www.trust.org/item/20150511043708-5vjks/
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Sick children aren’t getting medical attention they need after Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
* Any views expressed in this article are those of the author and not of Thomson Reuters Foundation.

Situation is dire and now is not the time for squabbling between groups who ideally should be working together

While the media debates the pros and cons of the emergency response well underway in Nepal, children are increasingly at risk of dying unnecessarily. The situation after the recent earthquake in Nepal is dire and now is not the time for squabbling between groups who ideally should be working together to get support to those who need it most.

Last week I was in Dolakha with Plan International working on our emergency response to the quake. We’ve begun distributing items like tarpaulins and food and are in the process of setting up a new office so we can continue our work there, distributing more relief items and supporting sectors like healthcare, sanitation and education.

During my time in Dolakha, I went to check out a distribution of relief items by the Nepali chapter of the Lion’s Club. It was of interest to me because the people receiving the items had quite a journey to make just to get to the distribution site. Their village in Bhimeswor Municipality is way down in the valley, so they had to trek about an hour and a half up a hillside path to the nearest road where vehicles could get to.

Walking uphill for an hour and a half in the blazing Nepali heat is certainly not a task to relish, but it was a journey that needed to be made – and make it they did, in their droves, women, men, girls and boys, the young and the elderly. More than 100 of them soldiered up the hill to pick up various items, including a bag of rice each. All in all, it was some pretty heavy stuff, which they then had to attach to themselves or else carry the bulk of it on their heads before making the trip back, which they told me takes only 45 minutes downhill.

Swarasti

While the distribution was going on and with a little help from a new friend of mine, Bidhata, I got chatting to a young mother named Swarasti who told me she was 29 or 30 years old, although she wasn’t entirely sure. Clung to her was her son, 3-year-old Shivaraj, who cried pretty much non-stop except when he was being breastfed.

“My boy is sick,” she said, “he has a fever.”

This raised alarm bells. The boy did feel like he had a fever and he was clearly in some discomfort, even before the arrival of a gangly foreigner wearing a scarf.

“Why don’t you take him to the local hospital?” we asked.

Swarasti replied that she isn’t keen on hospitals because she doesn’t trust them and she is afraid of having to pay for treatment.

At this point, Bidhata and I urged the woman to go to the local hospital, which was just up the road, assuring her she wouldn’t have to pay for treatment. Eventually she gave in and so off we went to the hospital, where I had spent the previous evening talking to the multitude of pregnant and new mothers there.

Treatment

At the hospital, Swarasti and Shivaraj saw Dr Binod Dangal, who examined the boy, quickly ordered an X-ray and figured out that he had acute respiratory infection, specially bacterial pneumonia caused by streptococcus. He prescribed some meds and gave them to Swarasti on the understanding that she would return for a followup, which we will chase her up about. Seemingly unfazed, Swarasti trundled off with Shivaraj to make the long journey back down the hill to their home.

Before we went to the hospital, Swarasti said she would just treat her son at home and hope that he got better over time. Clearly this wouldn’t have been a good idea.

It’s cases like this that emphasise the need to reach and support communities in remote areas. Increasing numbers of children are falling sick and if they continue to go untreated, they could die.

Co-ordination between all groups involved in this disaster response – charities, UN agencies, media, government, military, private sector and more -- is vital now and there isn’t a moment to waste.
</text>