<url>
http://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/wales-news/welsh-firefighters-speak-humbling-experience-9233988
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Welsh firefighters speak about humbling experience of bringing relief to communities devastated by Nepal earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Welsh firefighters have opened up on their “humbling” experience as part of the international rescue effort after last month’s Nepal earthquake.

Members of South Wales Fire and Rescue Service joined a team made up of colleagues from across Britain in searching the rubble of destroyed buildings and providing first aid to those who were injured in the April 25 quake, which killed more than 8,000 people.

Their response has been part of a show of generosity by people in Britain, with the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) announcing people in Wales had given £1.35m out of a UK-wide total of more than £50m.

'It felt so humbling'

The six-strong Welsh team - who have now returned to Wales - said they were pleased to offer help on the ground, using their expertise to bring relief to ravaged communities in the Himalayan country.

The South Wales team, all of whom were volunteers, also helped make a hospital safe, something which has proved vital in helping to save many of whom were injured.

“That was something key,” said station manager Shaun Moody, the operations commander.

“We couldn’t do much more with the rescue but getting the hospital up and running will save a massive amount of lives in the coming weeks and months.”

In pictures: Nepal earthquake aftermath

Describing the experience of being close to people who had lost so much, Mr Moody added: “It felt so humbling. The first thing they do is offer you something. They have lost animals and their livelihoods and they are offering you food and water. They are so resilient.”

Asked why the team volunteered for international rescue missions like this, he said: “We have got specialist skills and we want to utilise those skills across the world. We just want to help other people with them. The can-do attitude of everybody in the team always impresses me.”

100% devastation

The crew took their own food and water so as not to be a drain on precious resources. They were also forced to innovate – in one case using the UK ambassador’s daughter’s hula hoop with netting to collect precarious lumps of concrete.

Crew manager Bill Leahy, a technician on the mission, said: “When we deployed to the outlying villages, when we helicoptered in, we could see before we landed there was 100% devastation on the buildings there.

“Because they were remote areas, no assistance had been received so the local communities had to fend for themselves and life had to go on with what little belongings, possessions, food and water they had.

“For me it was quite difficult to go in and to leave behind as well. (But) it was rewarding to know that we had actually made a difference.”

Watch the terrifying moment avalanche hits Mount Everest:

Video Loading Video Unavailable Click to play Tap to play The video will start in 8 Cancel Play now

Watch manager Chris Jones said: “The one thing that everybody has found on this deployment is that the people of Nepal are amazing. They’re resourceful, they’re humble and they’re absolutely welcoming.

“Some of them have lost everything, including some of their family, and the first thing they’ll do is offer you food and water because it’s just part of their tradition.

“That’s one thing that will stick with all of us who were out there – although they had very limited resources they were happy to share that with us.”

'What little they had they offered us'

That was echoed by colleague Tristan Bowen who said: “There were two girls and a boy, brother and sisters, who had lost their parents but still had a smile on their face. That will stay with me for the rest of my life. What little they had they offered us, which was incredibly humbling.”

South Wales’s chief fire officer Huw Jakeway and public services minister Leighton Andrews have both paid tribute to the firefighters.

To make a donation to the DEC Nepal Earthquake Appeal, see www.dec.org.uk, call the 24-hour hotline on 0370 60 60 900, donate over the counter at any high street bank or post office, or send a cheque.
</text>