<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/news/2015-04-26/nepal-earthquake-dozens-australians-missing/6422398
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Dozens of Australians missing after magnitude-7.9 quake; families take to social media for information
</headline>

<text>
Nepal earthquake: Dozens of Australians missing after magnitude-7.9 quake; families take to social media for information

Updated

There are grave fears for dozens of Australians who have been listed as missing after a magnitude-7.9 earthquake struck Nepal and north India, killing more than 2,500 people and triggering a fatal avalanche on Mount Everest.

Friends and family members have listed the missing Australians on a Red Cross website, which allows concerned relatives or friends to list people as missing, and for those affected by the disaster to indicate that they are safe.

It is understood 549 Australians were registered as travelling in Nepal at the time of the quake while 200 have been confirmed safe.

For more information: ICRC missing persons list

DFAT: 1300 555 135

DFAT: +61 2 6261 3305 (from overseas)

The Australian Embassy in Nepal is providing assistance to Australians and has confirmed the safety of over 200, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said in a statement.

Ms Bishop said there were 549 Australians registered as travelling in Nepal and officials were working to locate all those in the country.

While there are reports of extensive loss of life, at this point there are no reports of Australian deaths.

She said DFAT had opened its Emergency Call Unit and had updated the travel advice for Nepal noting disruptions to telecommunications, transport and tourist infrastructure.

"I urge Australians concerned for the welfare of family and friends in Nepal to attempt to contact them directly," she said.

"An Australian Crisis Response Team will travel to Nepal as soon as possible to assist in establishing the welfare of Australians unaccounted for after the earthquake on 25 April. Two humanitarian experts will also be deployed."

Hope remains for those still missing

Mark Squirrel, a former United Nations security advisor who lived in Nepal, said families with missing loved ones should not give up hope yet, as many parts of the area are remote and it is difficult to establish communication.

Get more stories like this Subscribe to Subscribe to get ABC News delivered to your email , including alerts on major breaking stories, daily wraps of the top issues and analysis and the latest stories on topics that interest you.

"I reckon at the moment if there were family members out there who haven't heard from their loved ones they probably shouldn't be getting too worried yet," Mr Squirrel said.

"There's a high probability that their family members are just struggling at the moment to find a means of communication to get a message back this way.

"The time of day was perfect. Being just before midday most trekkers would've been out and walking and therefore if you're not inside a building the chances are very, very high of survival and certainly the least chance of being injured as well."

On Sunday, a magnitude-6.7 aftershock struck earthquake-devastated Nepal, with climbers reporting the tremor triggered more avalanches on Mount Everest.

The latest quake struck north-east of Kathmandu near the border with China at a depth of 10 kilometres, the US Geological Survey (USGS) said.

The first quake, measuring magnitude-7.9, hit near Kathmandu around lunchtime on Saturday, sending buildings crashing to the ground and triggering a deadly avalanche at Mount Everest.

So far more than 2,500 people have died in the country's worst disaster in more than 80 years.

Rescuers are searching frantically for survivors amongst the rubble in the country's capital and injured people are being airlifted from Mount Everest base camp.

ABC/Wires

Topics: earthquake, disasters-and-accidents, nepal, australia

First posted
</text>