<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/agra/AMU-team-returns-from-Nepal-with-lessons-on-rebuilding-lives/articleshow/47238276.cms
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
AMU team returns from Nepal with lessons on ‘rebuilding lives’
</headline>

<text>
ALIGARH: Eight students of Aligarh Muslim University who went to Nepal soon after the quake and set up medical camps at hard-to-access areas like Manichudsa Hill, 4,400 ft above sea, have returned with a rich experience of "rebuilding lives". The people they treated said they had never seen such a camp in their area. The students said they treated about 250 people. Many were suffering from skin infections and arthritis. They also met an old man who had witnessed the 1934 quake.The AMU team left on May 4 and returned on May 8. "We went where no one has so far set up any medical relief camp — Manichood village," said Dr Saleem Mohd Khan, medical student. He is also the president of an NGO, Soch, that financed the trip. "'No one has ever set up a relief camp here', the villagers said on seeing us there," he said. This hill top village, in Gumar Chowk area is on the Shivapuri National Park road.After parking their car at Vajryogini Temple, the team trudged up to the village. Ittook more than half an hour to reach the village on the top of the hill. It was tough as the team was carrying supplies, said Amood Gulzar, a non-medical student of commerce faculty, AMU.The team leader and senior resident of JN Medical College, AMU, Dr Kashif Razi, said, "We ended up treating 250 people. They welcomed us with honey tea."The journey has also been an inspiring experience for the team. As a team leader Razi made sure the boys returned to the base camp by night and slept well. The only thing that they feared was "torrential rainfall as predicted and landslides", but thankfully nothing happened. Initially, the team was to leave for Nepal on May 2 but the Nepal embassy informed them of more tremors and aftershocks. "There were tremors recorded then. So we left two days later," said Razi.At the village, they met Shanu, who had witnessed a massive earthquake in Nepal 80 years ago and experienced it again in 2015. Having survived both quakes, he tells one and all, "Bigadna aur banana sab dekha maine (I have seen both destruction and reconstruction)."Abhishek Royal, a doctor, who went said the team saw women removing huge boulders to dig out their loved ones trapped under collapsed houses. "They had told the government 'give us trucks and spades and we will dig our family out'. Caught in travesty yet they thought of helping us," he added.The spirit of rebuilding is inspiring, said team members "A family in Shakur refused to take money from us, they said 'it is against our pride and respect'," said Khan. What touched the team most was the attitude of the quake-hit people — "They wanted to come out of their problems on their own," said Royal.
</text>