<url>
http://www.dailyadvertiser.com.au/story/3037413/nepals-dharahara-tower-destroyed-killing-dozens/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal's Dharahara Tower destroyed, killing dozens
</headline>

<text>
Volunteers work to remove debris at Dharahara Tower following the earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, on April 25. Photo: Niranjan Shrestha

Buried beneath the rubble were so many bodies, thousands left trapped, bloodied or dead by tremors that brought down buildings and split paved streets in two. Rescuers dug with hacksaws, mangled metal bars and their own hands in the cold dirt, in a race to find survivors.

The earthquake tore through large stretches of Nepal, toppling towers in Kathmandu and entombing climbers on Mount Everest under tonnes of rock, ice and snow. Officials warned the death toll could reach 10,000, as the full extent of the devastation became known. Aftershocks continued to rock the impoverished nation, including one with a magnitude of 6.7 on Sunday night.

Among the dead were dozens of bodies pulled from the debris of the historic Dharahara Tower, its nine storeys reduced to a jagged, 10-metre stump. Many more were engulfed by an avalanche that thundered down Everest towards at least 1200 people at base camp. "What a hell," wrote one.

More than 300 Australians were among those missing on Sunday, as the official toll of those killed by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake passed 2000. Those unaccounted for included young Brisbane friends Ben Flanders and Jai Williams, who were planning to climb to base camp. "If I wasn't a spiritual person, I would be frantic," said Mr Flanders' mother Trish. "But I'm not crying at the moment and maybe that means he may be alright."

Many larger buildings, including hospitals and retirement homes, remained unstable. Access to food and water was also causing concern. Rubble and landslides prevented access to many villages to provide aid. "It's now a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble, help the injured and support the survivors," said the Red Cross' head of international programs Peter Walton.

The earthquake struck shortly before noon on Saturday, thundering for up to two minutes and throwing up clouds of dust as buildings collapsed in Kathmandu's historic centre. "It was difficult to breathe but I slowly moved the debris," said photographer Dharmu Subedi​, who was standing outside Dharahara Tower when it fell.

"Someone then pulled me out. I don't know where my friends are."

At least 17 people were killed on Mt Everest, where Dutch mountaineer Eric Arnold said the impact "was like a freight train".

Seismologists have long warned of a major earthquake in western Nepal, where there is pent-up pressure from grinding tectonic plates. But the initial rescue effort was chaotic, with emergency workers and volunteers using tools and bulldozers to dig in the rubble.

Hospitals across the nation of 28 million people struggled to cope with its worst earthquake in 80 years. Thousands sheltered under tents and tarpaulins on the streets of Kathmandu, fearful of fragile buildings made from unreinforced brick or crushed stone. "Ayo! Ayo!" ("It's come! It's come!") screamed locals, with the onset of each aftershock.

Australian Angela Macdonald-Smith, who had been trekking in Nepal, was herded from her hotel to a small vacant lot outside. "We are advised to go somewhere safe but nowhere seems safe here," she said.

The epicentre of the quake was 80 kilometres west of Kathmandu. But its force was felt beyond Nepal, with at least 60 people reported dead in India, five in Tibet and four in Bangladesh.

The Australian federal government said it had sent a crisis response team to Nepal to confirm the safety of those Australians who had not been accounted for. An initial $5 million in assistance would also be offered to Nepal, said foreign minister Julie Bishop.
</text>