<url>
http://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/tempe/2015/05/10/asu-nepalese-students-haunted-worry-quake/27103137/
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
ASU's Nepalese students haunted by worry after quake
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE An American trekker stranded for five days in a remote part of Nepal by a massive earthquake captures the moment when the massive earthquake hit Langtang, a popular tourism area whose main village was wiped out by an avalanche.

From left: ASU professor Gyan Nyaupane and ASU Ph.D. students Samridhi Shrestha and Kamesh Regmi fear for their loved ones as well as for their homeland of Nepal. (Photo: Nick Oza/The Republic)

In Nepal, Gyan Nyaupane says, there is a custom. You do not discuss your problems with loved ones who are far away, so as not to burden them.

"One of the problems is in our culture, even if you are not OK, you say you are OK, because you don't want other people (to) suffer because of you," he says.

The Nepalese graduate students gathered close around the cafe table respond, almost in unison, "Yes."

They are grateful that Gyan has put their worry into words.

When you live across the world in a desert that is oceans away from your family, this cultural norm quiets concern. It helps, amid the business and bustle of American life, to believe that a faraway mother and father are happy and healthy.

It helps until the unthinkable happens. As it did on April 25.

Gyan, a gentle speaker, is an Arizona State University professor who studies environment, culture and tourism and advises the Nepalese student group on campus.

RELATED : Scottsdale climber safely at Everest base camp after quake

RELATED: Death toll could reach 10,000, prime minister says

On April 25, at half past midnight, he and his wife were asleep. A ringing phone cut through the silence. It was his brother-in-law in Atlanta.

"He said, 'There's a huge earthquake in Nepal,' " Gyan says.

Gyan rushed to open his laptop. A news alert flashed on the screen: "A 7.8-scale earthquake hit Nepal," he remembers. "Less than 100 people died."

He turned to Facebook, looking for any updates from family in Nepal. Nothing. He called his parents. No answer.

Distraught, Gyan told himself maybe the phone wasn't working.

"I was so much, so much worried," Gyan says, his English faltering as he recalls the fear.

(Photo: Niranjan Shrestha/Associated Press)

How close was the earthquake to his parents' home? They live in a small village in Nepal's Dang district, nearly 300 miles southwest of the capital city, Kathmandu.

He searched online for the epicenter of the massive earthquake. He checked Facebook again. This time, there was a message from his cousin.

His parents were alive.

But his country was in ruins. The earthquake triggered avalanches and mudslides, turning toppled mountains and buildings into weapons. Entire villages in rural areas were leveled.

RELATED : Beware charity scams tied to Nepal earthquake

Gyan says he called a Phoenix friend whose family lives near the epicenter, west of Kathmandu. "They were alive, but their entire village was gone. Only four houses were (left) standing," Gyan says.

It's been two weeks since the earthquake hit the landlocked country between India and China. People are afraid to return to their homes as aftershocks continue to shake the ground. The death toll has surpassed 7,000 and continues to climb. More than 14,000 people have been injured.

The disaster in Nepal has started to fade from the American news cycle. But for people in Arizona with loved ones living in Nepal, the suffering has just begun. Countless bodies must be dug out of the rubble. Hunger and thirst grow as supplies run low and clean water is scarce. The injured and sick lack medical care in a developing country still recovering from a 10-year civil war that ended in 2006.

(Photo: Nick Oza/The Republic)

And people like Gyan and the students in his group watch from the other side of the world. There's little they can do to help yet. They are still learning the full extent of the suffering.

At the same time, the people in ASU's Nepalese Students Association have reason to hope.

Their loved ones, in their immediate families, may live in peril for now, but they are alive. And the members of the group have one another. Sitting recently at a Tempe-campus coffee shop reflecting on the days since the earthquake, they show how they care for one another through grief.

They have leaned on one another since learning of the earthquake. They have set up tables at community and college events, fundraising for the people of Nepal — their people. For some students, it was embarrassing to ask for money, but they did so because they know it's what their homeland needs most and it's a way to help when they can't be there in person.

And amid sleepless nights and exhausting days, they have tried to study for their final exams.

They move their chairs nearer one another so they are sitting within reach when a reassuring hand is needed. One man opens an umbrella for a friend to shade her from the Arizona sun. Her eyes fill with tears when she speaks of missing her mother in Nepal.

(Photo: Manish Swarup/Associated Press)

'Are you all right?'

Aisha Gautam was still at ASU working on research when her boyfriend's mother called. It was around 1 a.m.

"She told me there's been an earthquake in Nepal," she says. "I didn't believe it."

She turned on the news. She called her mother and sisters in Kathmandu. No one answered.

"I haven't seen my mom in the past eight and a half, almost nine years," she says.

Her eyes fill with tears and she stops to take a deep breath before she continues to recall that night. Though no one could hear her, she pleaded for her mom's safety.

"I was like, 'Mom, please pick up the phone, I want to make sure you're OK,' " she says. "Are you OK? Are you all right? What's going on?"

She waited. She watched the news. At about 4 a.m., her sister sent her a Facebook message. Aisha's mother and sisters were safe.

Aisha, 25, still needed to hear her mother's voice.

She recalls her mom's confusion as she described what was happening in the hours after the earthquake: "We've been a lot of people gathering here in open space. There's been a lot of shocks. It's been trembling and shaking."

She wanted to comfort her mother. Tell her where to seek shelter. She felt helpless, thousands of miles away, imagining her mother standing outside amid chaos as buildings crumbled around her.

Aisha grew depressed as each day passed. Her mom was still living outside. She asked: Was her mother eating? Did she have water? Where was she sleeping?

"My mom keeps saying, 'Don't worry about me. Focus on your exams,' " Aisha recalls. "I have everything and I can't even give her words to make her feel better."

A few days ago, her mother helped her gain perspective. Aisha repeats her mother's words in Nepali first, as if to honor her. Then, she translates.

"It means: 'I guess I didn't die because I was destined to see you; I was going to meet you 'cause we haven't seen each other,' " she says. "I felt that for the first time.

"I am lucky. I am going to see my mom again, but there have been thousands and thousands and thousands of people who have died. They will never see their family again."

(Photo: Wally Santana/Associated Press)

Fears for survivors

Samridhi Shrestha, 34, found out that her mother and father were safe in Kathmandu. They took shelter outdoors with a small group of neighbors.

Her fears quickly turned to her father's health. He needs kidney dialysis four times a day. But returning indoors in an aftershock was dangerous. It was a deadly risk her father had to take.

"The first day, they just did the dialysis twice," she says. "He was scared. They set it up so they could try to run if they had to."

Pabitra Pandeya, 27, says her brother's leg was injured in Kathmandu while he ran from a building. He is among thousands who have fled the capital city for their village homes. He joined her parents, who survived the earthquake in Dang, where they live. Another brother, a doctor, left Dang to help people suffering in rural villages.

Pabitra is studying architecture. She says Nepal is also mourning its cultural heritage — buildings and temples more than 100 years old have been destroyed.

"Nepal is so poor," she says. "Our heritage sites mean so much to us."

Samridhi says her husband has grieved for the historic Dharahara Tower, a nine-story structure that is now a pile of rubble.

"He grew up by it," she says. "He feels bad he took it for granted. He can't believe he never took a photo. Now it's gone."

Kamesh Regmi, 30, says he can't watch the video clips of the tower falling. His parents live in Kathmandu. They are safe, for now.

He says his father sees the earthquake as a turning point that may quell fighting among Nepalese factions.

"He hopes we will finally have to come together," Kamesh says.

Samridhi is returning to Nepal later this month. Her family had planned a party to celebrate her Ph.D. in biology.

"We canceled it," she says. "We gave away the money we saved to help."

Now she is going home to help her family and her people. The other students say she will be their eyes. She will let them know how bad the suffering really is.

How to help

The Nepalese Students Association at Arizona State University is fundraising to aid people in Nepal. The money will go to one of the following non-profits currently working in their homeland: Red Cross, CARE, OXFAM, Doctors Without Borders, Save the Children or UNICEF.

Website: http://www.youcaring.com/emergency-fundraiser/nepal-earthquake-relief-fundraiser/344732

(Photo: Niranjan Shrestha/Associated Press)

Read or Share this story: http://azc.cc/1HbKJUz
</text>