<url>
http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2015/s4233516.htm
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Race to get food to earthquake victims as monsoons loom
</headline>

<text>
Imogen Brennan reported this story on Monday, May 11, 2015 18:30:00

ASHLEY HALL: It's now been more than two weeks since a massive earthquake devastated parts of Nepal, and bad weather is still preventing emergency workers from reaching some remote villages.



More than 7,900 people were killed and tens of thousands more were injured or left homeless by the disaster.



The Australian Government has increased its support for Nepal after the United Nations revealed it's received only about 5 per cent of the funds needed for the relief effort.



Imogen Brennan has this report.



(Sounds from Kathmandu streets)



IMOGEN BRENNAN: In Nepal's capital, streets are lined with mountains of rubble. Bricks, glass and messes of metal are piled high into the areas where buildings stood two weeks ago.



Residents still wander by inspecting the destruction in silence.



KATHMANDU RESIDENT: Our prime minister has assured us that they will rebuild everything but of course this will take years to build up.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: Australia's government has announced it will double the amount of funding its giving to Nepal, bringing its total to about $20 million.



That makes up a small portion of what's needed.



The United Nation's says it's received only about 5 per cent of the $415 million needed to rebuild the country.



Richard Ragan is the UN World Food Programme's emergency coordinator for the disaster. He spoke to PM from the capital, Kathmandu.



RICHARD RAGAN: We're racing against the clock because the monsoon is in about 30 days, so we're trying to get as much relief materials as we can out in the field. We have fed nearly a million people.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: How have you gone in terms of getting food to people in very remote villages? Is that still proving to be a challenge?



RICHARD RAGAN: Eight of the 14 highest mountains in the world are located in Nepal, so that upper altitude part of the villages we’re using helicopter assets to reach those people. Right now we have two helicopters operating and by the end of the month we'll hopefully have five MI8s in place.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: Professional adventurer Adrian Hayes knows Nepal's challenging terrain intimately. He's climbed Everest, K2 and many of Nepal's other mountains, and spent eight years as a Gurkha officer.



Hayes was about 18 kilometres from the Everest Base Camp and due to climb the world's 4th and 5th highest mountains when the earthquake hit and changed his plans.



ADRIAN HAYES: You know I've got some sort of skills and circumstances and equipment that could actually be put to better use. Basically that was speaking Nepalese as a - I was an ex Gurkha officer, eight years in the army, so speak Nepalese pretty professionally. I'm medically trained, self sufficient in food and equipment, sleeping bag, tents and all the rest of it.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: For the past two weeks, Hayes has been trekking in to some of Nepal’s most remote villages, reporting his findings back to aid agencies.



ADRIAN HAYES: The highest village in Makalu Region was around 4,000 metres and then down to around two, so buildings with half their size gone, piles of rubble, some communities completely flattened.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: What kind of reactions where you getting from the villagers in these places when you arrived?



ADRIAN HAYES: Well, a little bit of helplessness because I asked the very same question, will the government… you know will they help you, yes, they laughed, they said look, we might see something in 20 years.



So doing what they can, I mean Nepal's used to hardship, they live a hard life up there. So people were getting on trying to rebuild, putting tin instead of stones, but obviously nowhere near the amount of funding and sort of support that they need.



IMOGEN BRENNAN: The World Food Programme's Richard Ragan says Nepal's recovery certainly won't be a short term process.



RICHARD RAGAN: I would hope that the donor community and people who care about Nepalese won't forget about this emergency.



ASHLEY HALL: The World Food Programme's Richard Ragan ending Imogen Brennan's report.
</text>