<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/11/national/quake-hit-susceptible-to-diseases/405086.html
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
Quake-hit susceptible to diseases
</headline>

<text>
May 11, 2015-

People adversely affected by the devastating earthquake in remote northern VDCs of Dhading district have been suffering from various communicable diseases.

Diseases such as diarrhoea, fever, pneumonia, dysentery and conjunctivitis have started to grip the poorly built camp for earthquake victims at Ri, Tipling, Sertung, Jharlang, Lapa among other VDCs in the area. Health workers said earthquake victims are susceptible to these diseases as they live in a common camp and don’t have access to pure water and warm clothes.

Jiban Malla, the officer at District Public Health Office (DPHO), admitted that those were indeed the main causes behind the spread of the diseases in the remote villages for past few days. He said that health camps were set up at Sertung and Tipling VDCs with an assistance of Himalayan Healthcare-Nepal, an organisation working in health sector in the district for the past two decades.

Shambhu Singh Thakuri, Public relation officer at the organisation, informed that some 570 people suffering from diarrhoea, pneumonia and conjunctivitis were provided treatment in the health camps.

He said that the health camps would be set up in other affected villages as well. “We are planning to dispatch some American doctors in the area too,” he said.

The quake-displaced people have been sharing the already cramped tent with their pets and cattle, contributing to the spread of the disease.

“The quake victims have also lost both their houses and animal sheds. So they have been staying under common camps along with their cattle,” said Buddhi Thapa Tamang, technical assistant of Tipling VDC.

Along with organising health camps, the DPHO has also been launching health awareness campaigns in the area urging locals to drink only boiled water and construct latrine.

Delayed relief riles Nuwakot women

Prakash Adhikari (Nuwakot)

Enraged at the serious delay in providing relief, earthquake victims, most of them women, from Charghare Gauribeshi in Nuwakot district staged demonstrations at the District Administration Office (DAO) on Sunday.

These women chanted slogans against the authorities concerned for not providing relief even two weeks after of the devastating earthquake. They claimed that the VDC secretary distributed the relief materials provided by District Natural Disaster Rescue Committee “unfairly”. Phulmati Rai, 52, said the genuine victims are deprived of relief as the VDC secretary, under political influence, distributed the relief materials to the “well-connected people”, mostly the activists of various political parties. The relief materials reached the village but the real victims could not get their hands on any, she added.

A group of about 100 women met with Chief District Officer Koshhari Niraula and complained that the real quake victims could not get any relief materials due to the sheer biasness of the VDC secretary and the local party leaders towards them. The enraged women also inquired as to why the relief did not reach Charghare Gauribeshi adjoining Bidur, the district headquarters, even two weeks after the devastating earthquake.

Sharmila Rimal, a local, claimed that even postpartum mothers have been deprived of relief materials, adding that women from oppressed group are also among the most affected as they have been denied relief. The protesting women demanded “scientific distribution” of relief, while venting ire against the authorities for poor coordination during relief distribution.

Apart from government agencies, the DAO has allowed 68 private organisations to distribute relief in the district as of Friday.

Published: 11-05-2015 07:20
</text>