<url>
http://www.perthnow.com.au/news/western-australia/fears-for-perth-girl-missing-in-nepal-after-massive-earthquake-killed-700/story-fnhocxo3-1227321142697?nk=383f39ca9c084c95cc1ec2f486406b43
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Fears for Perth girl missing in Nepal after massive earthquake killed 700
</headline>

<text>
ABOUT a dozen West Australians are among the missing after a 7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal that has killed more than 2000 people.

Volunteer worker Karen Lee Jury, 44, has not been in contact with her family since April 23 and was believed to have been in the Mustang District near Kathmandu when the first tremor struck.

Her mother Heather is worried because Karen caught public transport to the centre for women and disabled children where she had been volunteering since September.

At least one Perth man is believed to have been at the Mount Everest base camp, which was hit by an avalanche.

About a dozen other West Australians have been registered as missing by loved ones on a Red Cross website, including Willetton woman Brooke O’Keefe.

MASSIVE AFTERSHOCK HITS NEPAL — LATEST UPDATES

media_camera Perth woman Brooke O’Keefe, one of those unaccounted for in Nepal. Image supplied

Her mother, Shelley Packard, said she was seeking information on her “free-spirited” and “big-hearted” daughter, who has been working in Nepal.

“She’s been over there for a long time, working at orphanages and she just helped build a sustainable village with 20 other volunteers,” she told PerthNow.

“She’s already cancelled two flights home, she loves it over there”

“She was due home on May 18.”

Ms Packard said Brooke’s sister last spoke to her on Friday.

“It’s just a waiting game, I feel like I just want to get over there and start looking myself,” she said.

“I just so hope she is ok, this is a horrible feeling.”

Ballantyne Paige Forder, 22, Callumn Shally, 21, and Shannen Wynne, 20, are among those from WA who have been able to get in touch with family back home.​

Ms Forder — known as Billie — had also been working in orphanages in the area hit by quake.

Her sister, Priscilla-Anne Forder, had pleaded for news and on Sunday afternoon the Mount Lawley woman confirmed that she was safe and well.

media_camera Ballantyne Forder, known as Billie, was working in the area hit by the quake. Image supplied.

“Letting all my loved ones know I am safe during this massive earthquake,” she wrote.

“The orphanage, some locals and I have been camping in a field since 12pm yesterday, praying for our safety. Please keep myself and the beautiful people of Nepal in your prayers at this time. Rest in peace to the many lives already lost...”

Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted on Sunday: “My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety”.

Foreign Affairs minister Julie Bishop said on Sunday that more than 200 Australians had been confirmed safe and officials were working under challenging conditions to locate the 549 registered travellers in Nepal.

Rescue efforts in Nepal have been hampered by powerful aftershocks, including a 6.7-magnitude tremor that struck about 1pm local time on Sunday.

India’s defence ministry spokesman Sitanshu Kar tweeted that all movement to Kathmandu was being kept on hold until 4pm because of the fresh tremors.

Rescuers in Nepal are searching frantically for survivors from the quake that killed more than 2,000, digging through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu and airlifting victims of an avalanche at Everest base camp.

National police spokesman Kamal Singh Ban says the number known to have died in Nepal has risen to 1,953 while officials in India say the toll there stands at 53.

— TOLL: No reports of Australian deaths as toll nears 2000

— AUSTRALIANS: More than 200 confirmed safe; 549 registered travellers in Nepal

— HUMANITARIAN AID: Australia to send $5 million in financial aid

.
</text>