<url>
http://www.ekantipur.com/2015/05/11/capital/nc-lawmakers-hit-out-at-sluggish-relief-distribution/405087.html
</url>

<date>
20150511
</date>

<headline>
NC lawmakers hit out at sluggish relief distribution
</headline>

<text>
May 11, 2015-

The government has drawn flak from ruling Nepali Congress lawmakers for its inability to conduct swift rescue and relief distribution.

At a party’s Parliamentary Committee meeting on Sunday, the lawmakers pointed out the poor coordination between parties, within the government and urged Prime Minister Sushil Koirala to improve on its efforts.

According to NC Chief Whip Chinkaji Shrestha, several NC lawmakers had criticised the government’s role in rescue and relief works.

PM Koirala admitted government’s poor response in early days in the aftermath of the quake, but assured that it was seriously working on providing adequate relief to the affected people.

During the meeting, lawmaker Nabindra Raj Joshi said lawmakers should be given responsibilities to monitor the relief distribution.

At this moment of crisis when all the parties are coming together, the NC should put aside differences to shoulder the national calamities, said PM Koirala. He told the meeting that it would take 5-7 days even for developed countries like the US and Europe to manage calamities such as these.

The lawmakers pointed out the lack of coordination between state agencies, lawmakers and local administration for the poor relief distribution.

Responding to criticism from lawmakers from quake affected districts Kanchan Bade Shrestha, Praksah Sharan Mahat, Madan Amatya, among others, PM Koirala said: “I am working on managing the situation. But do not question my intent as I am serving the nation with honesty.”

Govt releases Rs190m more to 14 districts

The Home Ministry has released an additional Rs190 million for 14 districts worst-affected by the April 25 earthquake, mandating Chief District Officers to use the fund for rescue and rehabilitation of victims.

The government had earlier channelled Rs 5 billion to the ministry responsible for dealing with disasters. The ministry has already released Rs 2.84 billion to the affected districts as part of relief, rescue and rehabilitation works.

On Sunday, the government released Rs 50 million for Dolakha District Administration Office, Rs 70 million in Ramechhap, and Rs 1 million each in Palpa, Lamjung, Tanahu and Solukhumbu. Rs 500,000 each was given to the Chitwan and Manang District Administration Offices, and Rs 150,000 for Dhankuta. Rukum and Myagdi District administrations while Rs 200 million was handed over to Okhaldhunga.

In the absence of elected representatives at the local level, major parties have formed all-party relief distribution panels in districts to distribute relief to the victims. Till Sunday, the death toll of the April 25 Great Quake has reached 8,019, with 17,866 people injured. According to the ministry, a total of 2,649,450 have been affected and 5,477,224 houses damaged.

The government has announced to provide Rs 200,000 each to families that lost their homes to the devastating quake, in addition to a waiver of bank loans up to Rs 50,000. Additionally, it has committed to provide immediate grant to those who want to renovate damaged houses on their own. Quake victims will also be able to get bank loans at two percent interest to rebuild or repair their damaged houses. Victims in Kathmandu will get up to Rs 2.5 million house loan while victims staying outside the Valley are pledged Rs 1.5 million.

The DAOs have been mandated to provide the relief funds as announced by the government.

In a meeting, Deputy Prime Minister and Home Minister Bam Dev Gautam said the funds released for local authorities was a preliminary relief package and more funds will be released once the government allocates budget as demanded by the ministry.

Published: 11-05-2015 07:22
</text>