<url>
http://reliefweb.int/report/nepal/you-are-not-alone-delegates-tell-nepal-general-assembly-adopts-text-strengthen-recovery
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
‘You Are Not Alone’, Delegates Tell Nepal as General Assembly Adopts Text to Strengthen Recovery, Development Efforts in Earthquakes’ Aftermath
</headline>

<text>
GA/11644

Sixty-ninth Session,

90th Meeting (AM)

GENERAL ASSEMBLY

MEETINGS COVERAGE

Expressing condolences to the Nepalese people and Government in the aftermath of recent earthquakes and calling for action to speed recovery and reconstruction efforts, the General Assembly today adopted by consensus a resolution on strengthening the coordination of humanitarian and disaster relief assistance.

Efforts must be intensified to address the needs of 8 million people affected by the earthquakes of 25 April and 12 May, which killed 8,000 and displaced more than 3 million people, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said, providing an overview of the damages and subsequent response. The disaster had caused Nepal to be torn apart, setting back years of development gains, with millions of people that had risen out of poverty facing the risk of being pulled back.

More than half of Nepal’s 75 districts had been affected, he said, noting that, within 24 hours of the first earthquake, the United Nations had sent a team to help coordinate the arrival and deployment of search-and-rescue crews from 31 countries over the following days. Overall, more than 1 million people had been reached with food, 350,000 had been provided with clean water and 150,000 families had received emergency health care.

However, the coming monsoon season posed grave threats, including the spread of cholera and other diseases. A flash appeal had called for $423 million, which was currently only 14 per cent funded, and an additional $365 million was needed, he said, adding that there was an opportunity to make a real difference in the coming weeks and months.

Indeed, Kaha Imnadze, speaking on behalf of President of the General Assembly, Sam Kutesa, said that, while long-term recovery and rehabilitation efforts would play a crucial role in rebuilding the country, immediate concerns warranted the international community’s full support. Humanitarian needs were urgent and significant, and providing access to health care, sanitation and hygiene services were critical priorities.

Introducing the draft resolution (document A/69/L.66), the representative of Spain said every vote for the text was “a message of hope to the people of Nepal”. He said the resolution, which had been sponsored by more than 110 countries, had aimed at providing much needed assistance. “You are not alone,” said the representative of the European Union, echoing widespread expressions of condolences. Speakers, including from, Colombia and the United States, recognized Nepal’s leadership and resilience in ongoing efforts and pledged assistance for recovery and reconstruction.

Outlining contributions being made towards the emergency response to the disaster, some speakers highlighted future plans for short- and long-term assistance. Delegates of countries in the region, including from China and Pakistan, pointed to their swiftly provided supplies and personnel.

Speakers whose countries had been devastated by recent disasters also lent their perspective and support. Japan’s representative said his country knew first hand, from the 2011 earthquake there, that recovery from such a disaster was difficult and required a long-term approach and that international solidarity in those efforts was critical. Supporting the message to “build back better”, adopted in the Sendai Declaration at the recent World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction and in the resolution adopted today, he said Japan was providing assistance to Nepal and was co-organizing a pledging conference for further efforts to help the country.

Nepal’s representative thanked the Member States of the Assembly for their strong support, emphasizing that the resolution would be instrumental in assisting all efforts to guide his country out of catastrophe. For years, Nepal had been trying to prepare for such a disaster, with legislation and infrastructure built with that in mind, he said, but those efforts had not been enough and the country now faced a precarious situation.

The most pressing challenge in light of the monsoon season was to find shelter millions of displaced persons, he said, adding that linking recovery to long-term development was also needed. A full assessment of the damage was now being conducted by the Government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and could amount to more than $1 billion, he said, encouraging all Member States to contribute to help Nepal emerge stronger.

In other business, the Assembly took note of the Secretary-General’s 13 May letter to the Assembly (document A/69/722/Add.6), by which he informed the body that Grenada has made the payment necessary to reduce its arrears below the amount specified in Article 19 of the Charter.

Also speaking today were representatives of India, Indonesia, United Kingdom, Bhutan, Sweden, Cuba, Philippines, Iran, Bangladesh and the United Arab Emirates.

Statements

IOANNIS VRAILAS, the representative of the European Union Delegation, said that the Assembly was adopting a resolution proposed jointly by Nepal and one European Union member, Spain. The bloc’s remaining 27 States sponsored the text. In the immediate aftermath of the disaster, the Union sent first response teams, with rescue or other experts, as well as assets contributed through the European Union civil protection mechanism. The bloc provided €6 million in humanitarian relief and was determined, together with partners, to help the Nepalese authorities address the priority needs of the affected population, such as emergency shelter, food assistance and emergency health care. In parallel, the Union would continue supporting Nepal’s recovery and reconstruction process as well as its long-term development, already adopting €16.6 million for recovery and reconstruction.

ASOKE KUMAR MUKERJI (India) said that today’s adoption of the resolution was an expression of strong support for Nepal by the international community. India was at the forefront of providing support after the Asian tsunami, the Fukushima disaster and the Ebola outbreak. It had also evacuated many foreign nationals from war-torn Yemen, and had always endeavoured to be among the early responders in humanitarian crises. As a close friend and neighbour of Nepal, India launched Operation Maitri, meaning “friendship”. Among its assistance were 37 non-stop sorties of C-17 Globe Master, IL-76 and C-130 aircraft carrying 550 tons of relief material, with 13 helicopters of the Indian army operating from Kathmandu and Pokhara. The army had set up three field hospitals equipped with surgeons, anaesthetists, nurses and technicians drawn from premier hospitals.

LIU JIEYI (China) said that his country’s response teams, including rescue, medical and relief, started working in Nepal shortly after the quake. Now, more than 1,000 people sent by the Chinese Government, military and police were in that country, performing the biggest international humanitarian rescue-and-relief operation abroad since the founding of the People’s Republic of China. Two batches of emergency humanitarian aid totalling ¥60 million, or $10 million, had been announced, and 650 tons of tents, generators, water-purification facilities, blankets and other emergency supplies had been delivered through more than 30 military flights and 10 chartered cargo planes. Upon the news of a major aftershock in Nepal on 12 May, another batch of emergency aid totalling ¥80 million, or about $13 million, had been announced. In the days and months to come, China would maintain close communication with Nepal to get updates about the disaster situation and needs on the ground.

RICHARD ERDMAN (United States) expressed condolences, saying his country was working with partners to provide support. Commending those who were making efforts, he said a disaster assistance response team and the United States military had helped with searching for survivors and had provided support for the Nepalese Government’s initiatives. As Nepal works towards recovery, his country would continue to provide assistance in the short and long term.

MOTOHIDE YOSHIKAWA (Japan), sending condolences to the people of Nepal and neighbouring countries affected by the earthquakes, said his country knew first-hand from its 2011 earthquake that recovery from such a disaster was difficult and required a long-term approach. International solidarity in those efforts was also important. The recent Disaster Risk Reduction Conference in Sendai promoted the notion of “build back better”, as did the resolution adopted today. Japan was providing assistance to Nepal and was co-organizing a pledging conference for further efforts to help the country.

MUHAMMAD ANSHOR (Indonesia) said his delegation hoped that the international community would continue to support recovery and rebuilding efforts so the Nepalese Government and its people could restore their livelihoods to normalcy and strive towards resiliency. For its part, Indonesia had sent a medical and search and rescue teams and supplies to Nepal. The resolution should help to expedite aid delivery by the United Nations system. He also hoped the text would provide a platform for partnership between the system and all humanitarian actors and the private sector to support long-term efforts of the Nepalese Government and people in “building back better”.

MARTIN SHEARMAN (United Kingdom) said his country stood ready to do all it could to help Nepal in its hour of need. The United Kingdom was the largest humanitarian donor in response to the earthquake, having provided $35 million, including $15 million to the United Nations Flash Appeal. Since the beginning of crisis, the United Kingdom provided important logistical support, including aircraft; additional capacity was needed ahead of the monsoon season to step up humanitarian assistance. The message was clear: significant progress had been made, but there were also significant needs. The international community must act with determination and resolve.

KUNZANG NAMGYEL (Bhutan) commended the Nepalese Government and the international community for their ongoing efforts, to which her country had made modest contributions. She urged the international community to provide the much-needed assistance in rebuilding Nepal. With difficult challenges ahead, she said, Bhutan, as a fellow Himalayan country, stood in solidarity and support with the Nepalese people and Government.

MARÍA EMMA MEJÍA VELEZ (Colombia), expressing condolences, said the situation now required “us to support them”. The international community must continue channelling that support towards relief, rebuilding and development. With an understanding of the current difficulties Nepal now faced, her country had contributed to help the country find its way forward.

MAGNUS LENNARTSSON (Sweden), aligning with the European Union, said his Government reacted swiftly to the disaster by immediately deploying personnel and deciding on financial contributions. So far, Sweden had contributed $10 million, a significant portion of which was in response to the United Nations Flash Appeal in areas such as water, sanitation and psychosocial support. Sweden had sent 40 specialists to assist in the United Nations task force, as well as experts in areas such as management, coordination, information and communication technology, logistics, construction, vehicles, as well as temporary shelter and communication equipment. As a large contributor of non-earmarked support to United Nations humanitarian and development organizations, such as the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Sweden was also supporting their current humanitarian operations in Nepal.

DAVID FORÉS RODRÍGUEZ (Cuba) said his country, wishing to share its modest experience in natural disaster response, had sent a team of medical personnel to Nepal that was providing such services as x-rays and surgery. He urged the international community to shoulder its responsibility to help developing countries respond to natural disasters. An important way would be to cancel their external debt.

MARIA ANGELA PONCE (Philippines) said the second earthquake in Nepal underscored that disasters did not wait. Relief aid was part of sustained assistance that needed to continue over the long term, encompassing reconstruction and resilience, with risk reduction awareness built in. Attention must be paid to the special challenges of Nepal as a country emerging from conflict, and a gender perspective must be integrated into disaster management. Her country had deployed relief teams to Nepal and was ready to do more. As a victim of natural disasters, the Philippines understood the value of international solidarity and collective action during times of need.

GHOLAMHOSSEIN DEHGHANI (Iran) expressed condolences to the Government and people of Nepal for the loss of life, injuries and damages caused by the recent earthquakes. Reading from thirteenth century poet Saadi Shirazi’s work, he cited the following passage: “If you are indifferent about the misery of others, it is not deserving to call you a human being,” adding that his country had dispatched tons of emergency supplies and stood ready to provide further assistance.

NABEEL MUNIR (Pakistan) said the resolution just adopted signalled the resolve and commitment of the international community to provide all needed assistance to Nepal and to support it on the long-term road to recovery. As a fellow member State of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, Pakistan immediately responded to the dire situation in Nepal by rushing in emergency relief goods and critical medical supplies. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif issued a special directive to provide all possible assistance to the country in a timely manner. The Chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority of Pakistan visited Nepal and with Nepalese leaders assessed the situation and the need for further assistance from Pakistan.

ATM RAKEBUL HAQUE (Bangladesh), expressing condolences to Nepal, said the earthquake had also affected his country. In the immediate wake of the disaster, Bangladesh was also among the first States to send medical teams and supplies. Medical teams provided treatment to victims and continued to provide services to several thousand people. His Government would also send food supplies to victims and a concert on 21 May would be held to help raise funds for further relief efforts.

LANA ZAKI NUSSEIBEH (United Arab Emirates) said her country had, in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, sent emergency teams to Nepal and provided drone searches of remote areas. Aid had been provided for more than 30,000 people and field hospitals had been built in affected areas. Looking ahead, assistance was needed to help Nepal build its resilience.

DURGA PRASAD BHATTARAI (Nepal), speaking on behalf of his Government and people, thanked the Assembly for convening the meeting on a disaster that had devastated his country and also thanked the Secretary-General for his attention to the matter. The 7.8-magnitude earthquake and powerful aftershocks had killed 8,000, injured 18,000 and left 3 million homeless. On 12 May, Nepal was struck again, causing additional loss of lives and damages.

Amid those crises, international support had been tremendous, he said. The generosity and spontaneity shown in emergency responses, including from India and China, was heartfelt. Those actors directly contributed to the rescue of hundreds of people. Nepal cherished those friendships in the face of the great calamity. The scale of destruction was immense, shutting roads and levelling areas. Prospects for the future looked grim, as many who had crossed the poverty line had seen their gains lost. Cultural heritage had been heartbreakingly reduced to rubble.

The most pressing challenge in light of the common monsoon season was to find shelter for the millions of displaced persons, he said. Linking recovery to long-term development was needed. A full assessment of the damage was now being conducted by the Government and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and could amount to more than $1 billion. As such, he encouraged all Member States to contribute to help Nepal emerge stronger.

For years, Nepal had been trying to prepare for such a disaster, with legislation and infrastructure built with that in mind, he said. But, those efforts had not been enough and the country now faced a precarious situation. It was inspiring to see, in the wake of disaster, how the Nepalese people had come together, as “ingredients of progress”, with political parties rapidly partnering to guide the country out of the catastrophe. The resolution would be instrumental in assisting any and all efforts to realize that.
</text>