<url>
http://www.mamamia.com.au/news/five-australians-missing-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Five Australians missing in Nepal after an earthquake struck.
</headline>

<text>
The death toll is more than 2,500 with thousands more injured.

Update:

Perth woman Ballantyne Forder is alive and well.

ABC reports, Ms Forder took to her Facebook page to let family and friends know she was safe.

“”Letting all of my loved ones know I am safe during this massive earthquake. The orphanage, some locals and I have been camping in a field since 12:00pm yesterday, praying for our safety,” she wrote.

“Please keep myself and the beautiful people on Nepal in your prayers at this time. Rest in peace to the many lives already lost.”

Mamamia previously reported…

Advertisement

A magnitude-7.9 earthquake has struck Nepal and most of Northern India, killing more than 1,300 people. It also triggered a fatal avalanche for climbers at the base camp of Mount Everest.

A police spokesman said the death toll in Nepal alone had reached 1,394, with around 4,700 injured. More than 630 have been killed in the Kathmandu valley and at least 300 in the capital itself.

At this time Australian authorities believe that there are dozens of Australians missing.

The Australian Embassy in Nepal is providing assistance to Australians and has confirmed the safety of over 200, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said in a statement.

Ms Bishop said there were 549 Australians registered as travelling in Nepal and officials were working to locate all those in the country.

While there are reports of extensive loss of life, at this point there are no reports of Australian deaths.

She said DFAT had opened its Emergency Call Unit and had updated the travel advice for Nepal noting disruptions to telecommunications, transport and tourist infrastructure.

“I urge Australians concerned for the welfare of family and friends in Nepal to attempt to contact them directly,” she said.

“An Australian Crisis Response Team will travel to Nepal as soon as possible to assist in establishing the welfare of Australians unaccounted for after the earthquake on 25 April. Two humanitarian experts will also be deployed.”

Friends and family members have listed at least six Australians on the Red Cross website including Ballantyne Forder, 20, from Perth, Dianne Joy Coburn, 59, and Liam Coburn, 18, from Victoria, Zachary Sheridan, 20, from Adelaide, a 43-year-old man and Hamish McKee, 21, from Canberra.

However, this number is steadily climbing. You can see which Australians have been reported missing here.

Read more: Large earthquake hits Christchurch.

Australian actor Hugh Sheridan has taken to twitter to ask for prayers for his brother Zachary Sheridan who is missing on Mt Everest and was last heard from four days ago.

Ballantyne Forder was last heard from on Wednesday when she left Pokhara for the capital, her sister, Amanda-Sue Markham, tweeted.

Ms Markham said despite the images of destruction coming out of Nepal she was trying to stay positive.

“She’s following her calling over there, looking after these children, so that’s why I sort of think she’s probably still with them,” she said.

“I don’t think getting to a phone at the moment is her top priority.

“I just hope someone hands her a sat phone soon so that we know she is safe.”

Victorian man Justin Pomella has also been listed as missing.

Mr Pomella’s cousin Lauren Caruana posted a series of photos on Facebook of her cousin asking anyone for information.

She said his last known location was the Swayambhunath Temple in Kathmandu. He was there on Friday.

“If anyone has any information, please let me know as your help would be much appreciated,” she said in her Facebook message.

Essie, Australian blogger at mamafinch.com, has posted tweets this morning in hopes someone will have news on her brother Jacob Riordan.

He has been described as a “quiet and kind” man. You can read more about Jacob’s story here.

Hamish McKee and his grandmother Riitta Korpinen from Canberra have not been heard from since Thursday when they were in Pokhara. Hamish’s mother reported them missing to the Red Cross today.

Supporters of Queensland adventurer Alyssa Azar, who was preparing to climb Mt Everest, said the 18-year-old is safe at base camp.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has not been able to immediately confirm if any Australians had been injured in the earthquake or its aftermath. Consular officials are gathering information and are expected to release a statement soon.

If you are looking for someone who is in Nepal or the surrounding areas, you can search for them on this Google person finder.

Anyone needing consular assistance can contact DFAT on 1300 555 135 or from overseas on +61 6261 3305. If you would like to donate to the rebuilding efforts, a fund has been started at Global Giving. You can find the relief fund here. You can also donate to CARE Emergency to supply medical resources here or to Mercy Corps, who will be helping the survivors, here.

We will continue to update this story as soon as we know more.
</text>