<url>
http://www.sonomanews.com/news/3936245-181/from-kathmandu-to-sonoma
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
From Kathmandu to Sonoma
</headline>

<text>
After Nepal was hit by a devastating 7.8 earthquake on April 25, Anjalee Bajracharya and her husband spent two nights sleeping – or more accurately trying to sleep – in a vacant lot in Kathmandu, eventually returning to their home, which had significant cracks in the walls but was still standing.

Anjalee says she was forced inside by the elements.

“There was heavy sunlight and then rain, and it was either too hot or too cold and I couldn’t eat or sleep. I couldn’t take it anymore” she says. “I thought even if I die I am going back inside.”

She says she braced herself in the doorway and thought: “Oh my, this is going to be the last day of my life.”

But it wasn’t. And four days later, Anjalee flew off on a long-planned trip to the United States to attend a Bay Area women’s leadership conference.

Days after living through a major natural disaster, Anjalee saw the ocean for the first time, walked across the Golden Gate Bridge, and spent a weekend in Sonoma.

Anjalee, 28, is a finance expert who works for the Association for Craft Producers in Kathmandu, a fair-trade organization that supports low-income Nepalese artisans, marketing their wares and providing support in all aspects of the lives of almost 1,000 workers, most of them women.

She was chosen along with 19 other women from around the world to attend the Global Women’s Leadership Conference in Los Altos. Following the conference she came to Sonoma to stay with fair-trade entrepreneur Candi Horton. She had never met Candi, but mutual friends in the fair-trade community asked Candi to host Anjalee. Candi and her husband Brian Smucker were the longtime owners of Baksheesh, a fair trade store on the Plaza now called Global Heart, and are prominent in the fair trade industry.

Candi has visited Nepal twice and was delighted by the chance to get to know Anjalee. Last Saturday they visited five Bay Area fair trade stores so Anjalee could meet the owners and see how her company’s products are merchandised. She also had a chance to see the area and experience American culture first hand.

“All of my expectations came through the movies and television,” she said, explaining that she never imagined somewhat rural places like Sonoma even existed. “It’s more like Nepal than I expected, but where we would have small mud houses there are different kinds of buildings.”

Anjalee was thrilled by the Pacific Ocean. “For the first time I saw the ocean. I didn’t expect it to be so massive,” she said. She also had no idea that the Golden Gate Bridge was so long.

Open to new culinary experiences, she discovered a love of pizza, was not so crazy about raw oysters and thought crab was delicious. She liked the enchiladas she had at Maya Restaurant, and one of her favorite things was Candi’s homemade waffles.

While Anjalee was having an amazing first trip abroad, she was worrying constantly about her family, checking Facebook for information on what was happening at home and speaking with her husband, Bodhi Sahuo Shakya, twice a day. They just got married two months ago.

Bodhi and her mother encouraged Anjalee to make the trip, although she was torn about leaving during such a difficult time. “It was very much hard to leave, but my family said that I can’t do anything there. I can get a lot more help if I come here. I learned a lot from the leadership program that I can implement when I get back. I will get a lot of support.”
</text>