<url>
http://www.calgarysun.com/2015/04/25/families-in-calgary-scramble-to-contact-loved-one-after-powerful-earthquake-strikes-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Families in Calgary scramble to contact loved one after powerful earthquake strikes Nepal
</headline>

<text>
“I’m alive.”

That’s all a Calgary family got from their loved one, in Nepal when a powerful earthquake struck Saturday and not heard from until late in the evening, before the line went dead.

Time stood still until that point for the family of Jeremy Davidson, 25, as they desperately waited for the phone to ring ... to hear those words.

Davidson landed in Katmandu April 20 to spend two weeks volunteering at Pema Chuling Monastery.

The young humanitarian’s aunt, Tiara Falica, told the Sun Davidson would normally call home every time he’d come down from the mountain monastery.

But this time they weren’t so sure they were going to get that call.

“We’re happy, but we’re still really worried. We don’t know that he’s out of danger yet,” Falica said.

“Now we wait.”

It’s a phone call hundreds of Canadians with family members currently in Nepal are awaiting since the 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck.

Saturday morning, tears streamed down Ambika Hamal’s face. She got a text from a family member in the middle of the night, saying what had happened but nothing more.

For her also, time stood still.

She cried and prayed — she said there’s nothing else she could do from so far away.

“It’s really, really terrible,” she said.

“It’s such a stressful, restless feeling.”

Later Saturday morning she finally got someone back home on the phone — her family has survived. She’s relieved for that, but worried for everyone else’s loved ones.

Calgary’s Nepalese community is coming together to support each other and their families back home as they struggle to understand the extent of the devastation.

As of press time, 1,805 people were reported dead, with many of those casualties being in the Kathmandu Valley.

Prasanna Man Shrestha, president of the Calgary Nepalese Community Association, said he spent three long hours trying to get hold of his family.

“The mobile service collapsed there, so it’s very hard to get connected ... if you get connected you are very lucky,” he said.

“It’s a nightmare.

“I managed to contact my brother, and all my family members are safe, but my home where I grew up is destroyed. Everything is gone. It’s very hard to visualize.”

Shrestha said social media is proving to be useful, and families are seeing short, quick posts from their loved ones on Twitter and Facebook, saying “I am safe.”
</text>