<url>
http://bdnews24.com/bangladesh/2015/05/15/final-consignment-of-10000-mt-of-rice-reaches-quake-hit-nepal-from-bangladesh
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Final consignment of 10,000 MT of rice reaches quake-hit Nepal from Bangladesh
</headline>

<text>
Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a press release said the consignment was handed over to Kamal B Thapa, Assistant CDO, Jhapa district of Nepal after it reached the Himalayan country on Friday morning.

A Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on May 4 had decided to send 10,000 MT of rice and adequate drinking water to Nepal as humanitarian assistance to earthquake victims.

Apart from rice, Bangladesh government and other agencies so far sent 850 tents, 254 pieces of tarpaulin, 20 rolls of polythene, 66 pieces of plastic mats and 6,500 litres of bottled drinking water.

Also sent were 6,700 kgs of medicines and medical equipment, 90 kg of cotton, 45 kgs of bandages, 10 bottles of Savlon, 1,750 litres of bleaching powder, 77 cartons of readymade garments, 2,300 pieces of blankets, biscuits and other dry food.

These relief materials had been sent to Kathmandu by a special Bangladesh Air Force flight since April 26, the ministry added.

A 30-member medical team of the Bangladesh Army also went to Nepal where, during their 13-day long stay, they treated over 3,000 earthquake victims before returning home on May 9.

The Bangladesh Army Medical Team served in Bhaisepati, Lalitpur.

“In addition to that, the Embassy of Bangladesh is also working with several private organizations and has distributed relief materials in several areas in Lalitpur and Dhulikhel as well as several villages in Sindhupalchowk, Nuwakot and Gorkha,” the statement said.

It further stated the children of the Embassy officials forming volunteer groups had been distributing relief materials to earthquake victims in camps.

Apart from government agencies, several NGOs from Bangladesh were engaged in providing humanitarian assistance to victims of the earthquake in several localities outside Kathmandu Valley, the foreign ministry said.

BRAC dispatched a medical team to work in the affected districts and provide treatment to the people there. It also donated 5,000 blankets for the earthquake victims.

Bangladesh bankers’ association donated 40,000 blankets for the victims of earthquake in Nepal through the Embassy of Nepal in Bangladesh, the ministry added.

Pran Group donated 1,000 cartons of biscuits and 1,000 cartons of mango and litchi drinks.

Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), the Institute of Architects Bangladesh (IAB), Water Aid Bangladesh, Rupantor Bangladesh, Nazrul Parishad, the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FBCCI) and the members of the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bangladesh too have “generously donated” for the earthquake victims.

In a spontaneous gesture of support, the officers and members of the staff of Bangladesh Embassy in Tokyo donated 115,000 yen to the Embassy of Nepal in Tokyo.

The ministry further stated that the Pran Group would organise a fund-raiser, “Concert for Nepal”, in Dhaka on May 21.

Renowned bands of Bangladesh and other individual performers are expected to perform in the concert to be held with the Bangladesh Society, Nepal.

Earlier, on May 3 another “Concert for Nepal” was also organised in Dhaka.
</text>