<url>
http://www.bostonglobe.com/lifestyle/2015/05/14/harvard-program-for-relief-workers-tests-students-crisis-situations/OLB7KKszO5EGChZJK8gV2K/story.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Harvard program for relief workers tests students in crisis situations
</headline>

<text>
Claire Boine, a participant in the simulations program organized by the Humanitarian Academy at Harvard University, works with others during a land mine drill at Harold Parker State Forest in Andover.

There’s a crisis threatening to boil over in Worani. A militia group of rebel “freedom fighters” has been crossing the border from neighboring Egunda, raiding the local villages for supplies and recruits. Compounding the hardship, heavy rains and high winds have blighted crops, and thousands of refugees have surged across the border seeking food and shelter.

You haven’t heard about this emergency situation for a simple reason: It’s fictitious. The crisis in “Worani” — in reality, the lakeside woods of Harold Parker State Forest in Andover — is the brainchild of the team behind an intensive two-week graduate-level program in humanitarian response. Organized by the Humanitarian Academy at Harvard University, which trains students for careers in aid and relief work, this year’s crisis simulation, the program’s culminating event, took place over the last weekend in April.

Advertisement

Assembling on a chilly day for their initial briefing, nearly 100 anxious students from Harvard, Tufts, and MIT, as well as about 65 professionals also taking the course, sat under a canopy tent, processing their instructions. Apprised of the conditions they would face, they had no idea about impending surprises such as land mines, for instance, or the aggression of child soldiers recruited by the freedom fighters.

Moving through a succession of stations over the course of the weekend, the students’ job was to assess each need and implement a relief strategy, often while under the duress of time constraints, medical needs, or hostile militia members. Over two weeks in the classroom, students explored various scenarios that aid workers might face. The weekend in the woods was like a live-action final exam on the lessons they’d learned. The event concluded with each team presenting to a mock board their cases for the need to fund continuing operations in the region.

Get The Weekender in your inbox: The Globe's top picks for what to see and do each weekend, in Boston and beyond. Sign Up Thank you for signing up! Sign up for more newsletters here

As Dr. Stephanie Kayden, director of the Lavine Family Humanitarian Studies Initiative at the Academy, addressed the group and the volunteers who would stage the crisis, a distant rifle shot rang out through the woods. One student raised her hand and asked whether she could assume such gunshots were simulated.

“I don’t think I can answer that,” Kayden replied. After listening to some discussion among a few students, she said for all to hear, “Your colleague is reminding you that you already signed a waiver.”

Mark Lorenz for The Boston Globe In simulations, students deal with militia as they try to get to a refugee camp.

The laughter that comment drew would be a rare sound for the rest of the weekend, which proved even more tense than usual. An hour after the briefing, at a clearing deep in the woods, a group of volunteers scrambled to set up a station in which the students would encounter an actor playing a man injured by a land mine.

Advertisement

“Whoever gets blown up needs to scream bloody murder,” explained Marie-Renee Lajoie, a doctor of emergency medicine who teaches at McGill University in Montreal. As a student she went through the Harvard program years ago; like many of her colleagues, she returns each year, on her own dime, as a volunteer.

Just before the first group of students arrived, Lajoie grabbed a baby doll. Sitting on a downed tree, she would portray a refugee whose child was suffering from malnutrition.

“Does anybody want an extra baby?” she called out to the volunteers. “There’s one in the crate.”

In their training, students are taught not to enter a minefield recklessly, even to tend to an injured person. When the “bomb” went off, emitting red powder, the students looked bewildered. They struggled to come up with a plan to help the wounded man (in real life, a doctor from Japan named Takashi) while he lay on the ground, howling.

Later, on a walk down a dirt path between stations, Lajoie said that one of the benefits of the program is to help students determine whether such a stressful job is right for them.

“Some will say they never want to do it again,” said Lajoie. Many of her fellow graduates of the program, she said, “have gone into the field and seen how wrong it can go.”

But others will be invigorated by the challenge. The Harvard crisis simulation began as a “tabletop exercise” before becoming a live event with about 35 students in 2004, explained founder and physician Michael VanRooyen. He’s a widely acknowledged expert in emergency medicine who has helped coordinate responses to Hurricane Katrina and at the World Trade Center after the 9/11 attacks, as well as overseas in Somalia, Bosnia, Iraq, and elsewhere.

‘Some will say they never want to do it again. . . . [Many] have gone into the field and seen how wrong it can go.’ Marie-Renee Lajoie, doctor of emergency medicine and program graduate who returns yearly to volunteer

VanRooyen monitored this year’s simulation accompanied by his roaming Labrador retriever. One afternoon, he watched with amusement as his daughter, an 18-year-old freshman at Columbia University named Alexandra, portrayed the leader of a band of young guerrilla soldiers.

Wearing fatigues and a head wrap and carrying a toy rifle, she harassed a group of students who were trying to convince the militia members to let them pass to check on the refugees.

Mark Lorenz for The Boston Globe Students built refugee housing.

“You have nothing to give us,” she chided, “but you say you’re going to help.” From a distance, VanRooyen smiled at his daughter’s convincing acting.

One student who completed the course more determined than ever to forge a career in international relief work was Mohit Nair. A Mumbai native who grew up in Japan before enrolling at Cornell University, he is pursuing his master’s degree in Harvard’s Department of Global Health and Population in the T.H. Chan School of Public Health.

“I frankly didn’t know what to expect,” he said a few days after the simulation. “It was a phenomenal learning experience for me.”

Over the weekend, the campers were informed of the real-world disaster in Nepal, where the first of the massive recent earthquakes to hit the area claimed the lives of at least 7,000 people and displaced thousands more. Some of the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative’s faculty members and relief professionals who were on hand in fact had to leave to travel to Nepal.

“The line between reality and simulation blurred a little,” Nair recalled. “I was discussing it with one of my team members, and it took us a second to realize this was a piece of real news being communicated. That speaks to how well everyone got into their role.”

Nair, who is 23, said he doesn’t typically think of himself as a strong leader in a crisis.

“My first response is, I tend to freeze up,” he said. “But I’m somebody who enjoys pushing outside of my comfort zone. Fighting that is what I want to learn.”

Besides the medical emergencies they encountered, students in the program learned valuable lessons such as how to negotiate bribes and ransoms, how to speak to reporters, and how to interact with other aid agencies.

There remains, said Nair, “a lot of work to be done.” He was speaking about his own learning curve.

But he could have been addressing all the troubles in the world.
</text>