<url>
http://www.jsonline.com/news/health/medical-college-students-on-front-lines-of-deadly-nepal-quake-graduate-b99501304z1-303953871.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Medical College students on front lines of deadly Nepal quake graduate
</headline>

<text>
Sean Degmetich (in white), a Medical College of Wisconsin student, helps local medics tend to a patient in the aftermath of the April 25 earthquake in Nepal. Degmetich was among among nine students and one resident from the Medical College in Nepal as part of a special four-week program./Submitted Credit: Submitted

SHARE Nine students and one resident from the Medical College of Wisconsin in Nepal as part of a special four-week program when the April 25 earthquake hit. The group worked in a the medical camp outside Dhulikhel, 30 kilometers southeast of Kathmandu. Submitted Nine students and one resident from the Medical College of Wisconsin in Nepal as part of a special four-week program when the April 25 earthquake hit. The group worked in a the medical camp outside Dhulikhel, 30 kilometers southeast of Kathmandu. Submitted

By of the

With one exam and less than a month to go before their graduation from the Medical College of Wisconsin, Sean Degmetich and Nina Nosavan walked under an outdoor canopy where 50 of the injured lay crammed together, a mass of bandaged arms and legs.

Days earlier, on April 25, a 7.8-magnitude earthquake had struck Nepal, lending a sense of urgency to the students' monthlong exploration of health care in a foreign land. The two were among nine students and one resident from the Medical College in Nepal as part of a special four-week program.

Degmetich and Nosavan were only weeks from their wedding, graduation and then residencies at separate hospitals in California. The front lines of medicine beckoned.

"Residency is like where the rubber hits the road in terms of practical experience," Degmetich said.

In Nepal, in the medical camp outside Dhulikhel, 30 kilometers southeast of Kathmandu, practical experience was all around them.

A bus would arrive at the camp carrying some 30 patients transferred from the hospital in Dhulikhel. They'd suffered fractured arms, legs, ribs, broken hands, crush injuries. Some had been trapped under rubble and were badly dehydrated.

"We'd go on the bus and carry people off," Degmetich said.

The experience was still in the minds of Degmetich and his friends Friday as they joined more than 180 medical students at graduation.

The program that had brought them to Nepal was launched in 2011 by Theodore MacKinney, an associate professor of medicine at the college. MacKinney has been going to Nepal since 1993 and now lives there for 10 months of the year.

The Wisconsin students arrived in Nepal at the beginning of April and spent two weeks at Patan Hospital south of Kathmandu. They spent the second two weeks in Dhulikhel. On April 25 Degmetich and his friends were on a day trip to Chitwan. They were eating lunch when the earthquake struck.

"It felt like I was surfing on the earth," said Degmetich, who grew up in California. "It was pretty long, like 40 or 45 seconds."

In Chitwan, the people were quite calm and it was only later in the day that the students learned the magnitude of the quake and the severity of the damage.

"I was very proud of the students," MacKinney said. "They said, 'This is terrifying,' but they deeply wanted to serve and they did everything they could."

At the medical camp near Dhulikhel, Degmetich and his fellow students helped evaluate the injured, cleaned wounds, dispensed pain medications and assisted in orthopedic surgeries. The pace was fast. About five minutes after the doctors finished surgery on one patient, they would start in with the next patient.

The students saw the doctors at the medical camp deal with shortages of gauze, material for casts and surgical supplies.

"Their ability to work with limited resources is really impressive," Degmetich said. "In the U.S, you'll get surgeons who throw temper tantrums if they don't have the right equipment. In Nepal, they'll take whatever they have and work with it."

The students returned to Wisconsin on May 3. Degmetich and Nosavan got married last weekend. Friday they graduated. But they won't soon forget Nepal.

"Many of them have said to me that it was a life-changing experience," MacKinney said.
</text>