<url>
http://www.dailyliberal.com.au/story/3079384/helping-hand-for-the-people-of-nepal/?cs=111
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Helping hand for the people of Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Tim Houghton and Santosh Gc from Grapevine Cafe, Hugh Hopkins president of the Lions Club of Dubbo Macquarie and Narelle Rodway president of the Lions Club of Tooraweenah with items to be auctioned during the fundraiser for Nepal. Photo BELINDA SOOLE

A CHARITY auction will be held at Dubbo later this month to raise money for disaster relief and reconstruction work in earthquake-devastated Nepal.



The Himalayan nation was traumatised on April 25, when a magnitude-7.8 event struck near the capital Kathmandu, killing more than 8000 people, flattening entire villages and leaving hundreds of thousands homeless.

Fear and misery increased this week when another strong earthquake hit near Mount Everest.

The death, destruction and desolation has been horrific, according to Narelle Rodway and Sontash Gc who are organising a fundraiser at St Brigid's Hall on May 30.

Santosh, the chef at the Grapevine Cafe, came to Australia from Nepal six-and-a-half years ago.

Ms Rodway has been involved in volunteer work in Nepal, helping to renovate an orphanage in Kathmandu and contributing to a project educating teachers in remote villages.

"We wanted to do something to help," they said.

"The need in Nepal is great. The country cannot cope with what is happening. People are frightened and many are without shelter, food or water."

The Lions clubs of Dubbo Macquarie and Tooraweenah are supporting the fundraiser which will run from 6pm to 9pm.

A $10 entry fee will cover the cost of finger food and a complimentary drink.

"Tickets can be obtained in advance at the Grapevine Cafe or at the door on the night," Ms Rodway said.

"If people don't want to bid during the auction they can still have a lovely evening. Cash donations will be gratefully accepted. All money raised will go directly to Nepal. It won't be eaten up in administration fees."

Santosh studied commercial cookery in Sydney before relocating to Dubbo.

"I like this place and its people," he said.

"The people in Dubbo are very similar to the people in Nepal - friendly and welcoming.

"I am from Butwal, a city about 260km east of the main earthquake area.

"My family is OK but I am very concerned. Earthquakes are not a normal thing in Nepal and the government is struggling to cope. The disaster has caused a lot of big problems."

When Santosh first arrived in Dubbo there were about half-a-dozen Nepalese people living here.

"Now there are more 100," he said.

"We are all worried about our relatives and friends."

Ms Rodway lives at Gilgandra, works at Dubbo and has been a member of the Tooraweenah Lions Club for 17 years.

"I went to Nepal a few years ago as part of a project organised by the Rotary Club of Orange Daybreak," she said.

"Tooraweenah Lions contributed some money towards that project which achieved tremendous results educating teachers in remote parts of Nepal, including the village of Maidi.

"In the Maidi area earthquake damage has impacted on 95 per cent of the buildings. People don't have shelter, food, sanitation or clean drinking water and the monsoons are coming.

"The death toll is increasing as more bodies are found under rubble. Disease will bring even more suffering and death. Mental health problems are also a big concern due to ongoing emotional trauma.

"It is a very sad state of affairs for a country that was already poor to begin with."

Anyone wishing to offer cash donations or goods or services for auction can contact Ms Rodway by telephoning 0428 464 884.
</text>