<url>
http://www.christianitydaily.com/articles/3735/20150515/missing-u-s-huey-helicopter-found-crashed-survivors-unlikely.htm
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Missing U.S. Huey Helicopter in Nepal Found Crashed; Survivors 'Unlikely'
</headline>

<text>
The remnants of the missing U.S. Huey helicopter in Nepal were found on Friday; there appeared to be no survivors. U.S. and Nepalese military officials confirmed the crash on Friday, and stated that the eight passengers, six Marines and two Nepalese soldiers, are presumed dead.

Nepalese ground troops were the first to spot the crash, which occurred on the side of a mountain just 8 miles north of the town of Charikot. The crash site was near a dense forest. Ground troops as well as helicopters quickly ventured to the site after the initial sighting. U.S. troops verified that the crashed vehicle was the U.S. UH-1Y Huey helicopter that they were searching for.

Severe weather conditions, however, forced search parties to return to base. Powerful winds and freezing temperatures postponed the mission until Saturday morning.

“It was a very severe crash. We believe there were no survivors,” said John Wissler lieutenant general of the U.S. Marines. “We all mourn this tragic loss of life.”

The helicopter, originally from Camp Pendleton in California, lost communication with the military base during the earthquake three days ago when it was on a mission to provide relief supplies to remote areas. Before transmission was lost, the Huey crew mentioned a possible fuel problem. It was assumed that the Huey had lost communication because of the mountains and had landed in a low area because of a fuel problem.

On Saturday, search teams will head back to the crash site and retrieve the bodies for identification. Nepal mobilized 600 soldiers in search and rescue efforts for the missing helicopter and the U.S. utilized two Huey helicopters and two Osprey tilt-rotor planes in search of the craft.

President Barrack Obama expressed his condolences to the families of the lost Marines and Nepalese soldiers. “As we gather here today our prayers remain with the families of our Marines and two Nepalese soldiers, now that the wreckage of their helicopter has been found,” said President Obama.

“They went to that remote land to help people who suffered devastating losses in the terrible earthquake,” he said. “They represent a truth that guides our work around the world: when our friends are in need, America helps.”

The U.S. troops in Nepal will continue to help provide aid to the country's people. Recent earthquakes have caused 8,000 deaths and tens of thousands of injuries. Hundreds of thousands of buildings were destroyed in the quakes, which have left hundreds of thousands of Nepalese homeless.

"We will continue to stand by Nepal as long as they need our help," said lieutenant general Wissler.
</text>