<url>
http://www.ocregister.com/articles/nepal-661855-kathmandu-marine.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
‘Unlikely there are any survivors’: Wreckage of Camp Pendleton-based Marine helicopter found in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Nepalese soldiers assisting in rescue efforts for the missing Camp Pendleton-based UH-1Y Huey discovered the wreckage of the helicopter 8 miles north of where it had last been seen Tuesday, U.S. Pacific Command officials said early Friday.

The wreckage was discovered at 1:50 p.m. Nepal Standard Time near Charikot. Joint Task Force 505 personnel identified the wreckage at an elevation of 11,000 feet above sea level in a dense forest in rugged terrain.

“Because of the nature of the wreck, it is unlikely there are any survivors,” said U.S. Army Maj. David Eastburn, a spokesman for the U.S. Pacific Command.

Eastburn said early reports of bodies being found in the helicopter by Nepalese soldiers are unconfirmed. Nepal’s Defense Secretary Iswori Poudyal gave no details, and the U.S. Embassy in Nepal also had no comment Friday. The names of those on board have not been released.

Four para-rescuemen and one combat rescue officer are searching on the ground. Two UH-1Y Hueys with HMLA 469 and one MV-22 Osprey with Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262 are supporting the mission.

The UH-1Y Huey disappeared about 9:15 a.m. Pacific time Tuesday while on a rescue and relief mission southwest of Charikot, a town in Nepal heavily hit by Tuesday’s 7.3 magnitude earthquake.

The aircraft and its crew were delivering food, water and plastic sheeting for temporary shelters for those affected by the quakes Tuesday and on April 25. The crew also was helping to evacuate casualties to Kathmandu.

The discovery of the wreckage, first spotted by a Nepalese army helicopter Friday, followed days of intense search involving U.S. and Nepalese aircraft and even U.S. satellites.

The U.S. relief mission was deployed soon after a magnitude 7.8 quake hit April 25, killing more than 8,200 people. It was followed by a magnitude 7.3 quake on Tuesday that killed 117 people and injured 2,800.

In the past 24 hours, crews from Joint Task Force 505 continued the search for the missing helicopter, with two UH-1Ys searching southwest of Charikot and one MV-22 Osprey searching northwest of Charikot, Eastburn said.

The aircraft is part of Camp Pendleton’s Third Marine Aircraft Wing and part of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469. It was supporting Operation Sahayogi Haat.

Marine Col. (Ret.) Charlie Quilter of Laguna Beach, a decades-long fighter attack pilot with some Huey experience, has flown over some of Nepal’s terrain and describes it as jagged, steep mountains with frequent bad visibility.

“They don’t have emergency beacons like a civilian plane,” Quilter said. “The beacons are on the survival gear of each of the crewmen, (so) if everyone is dead, there is no possibility of them being activated.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.
</text>