<url>
http://www.4-traders.com/NESTLE-SA-9365334/news/Nepal-Short-of-Food-and-Shelter-as-Monsoon-Approaches-20385813/
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Nestle : Nepal Short of Food and Shelter as Monsoon Approaches
</headline>

<text>
By Sean McLain And Preetika Rana

CHARIKOT, Nepal--Three weeks after a massive earthquake struck Nepal, the country's hardest-hit citizens say they don't have the food or shelter they need to last through the fast-approaching monsoon.

The Shrestha family fled their home in a crowded neighborhood of the mountain town of Charikot and moved to a parking lot to wait for help to restart their lives. With no money or supplies to rebuild their house and nowhere else to go, they are now sleeping in a truck. They share the back of the delivery truck with two other families. Parked nearby are five other trucks that have become homes for other families.

"This place is safer," said Prithvi Shrestha, 42, who owns the truck which has become his family's home. "It's flat and the hills are far away," so it won't be hit by landslides triggered by aftershocks, he said.

The Nepalese government, aid organizations and the many people made homeless by the April 25 earthquake that shook this impoverished Himalayan nation agree that while the flow of aid is increasing, it still isn't enough.

"More resources and more funds," are needed, said Jamie McGoldrick, the United Nations resident coordinator in Nepal. So far, the U.N. has raised only 20% of $423 million it says it needs to help rebuild the country, he said.

As aid organizations were starting to make some headway, another substantial quake hit on Tuesday, blocking roads and forcing relief groups to stop and care for the injured and to clear supply routes all over again. Relief workers have been using porters, trekkers, mules and donkeys to ferry supplies to valleys and villages made inaccessible by rockslides.

Eight miles north of Charikot, search teams on Friday found the wreckage of a U.S. Marine helicopter that went missing while flying relief materials. Search teams weren't expecting to find any survivors.

There were six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese soldiers aboard the helicopter when it disappeared on Tuesday trying to help people hurt by the latest big quake.

Charikot is a small town, a mile above sea-level, with green mountains on either side. Thousands have fled to here because it is the seat of the local government and the destination for relief aid from Kathmandu, which is a five-hour, winding drive away.

The epicenter of Tuesday's quake was just 12 miles away. The series of quakes has destroyed 90% of the homes in the Dolakha district where Charikot sits.

Helicopters and trucks were stockpiling tents and tarpaulin, rice and instant noodles in Charikot in an effort to feed and shelter around 200,000 people in the region.

Authorities say that while delivery of aid has surged, most victims only have a week's supply of food. They need a month's, said Lt. Santosh Pandey, a member of the Nepalese army team helping to organize the relief work.

"We need more," said Maj. Rajan who uses only one name. Behind him lay sacks of Parle-G biscuits, Nestlé milk powder and Maggie instant noodles. "There are still many people we haven't been able to reach."

The situation is nonetheless an improvement from the week after the first earthquake. In those early days, people clamored at the barbed-wire gate to the Nepalese military base where the aid was stockpiled. Now, the distribution is more orderly.

Still, people say the dark cloud on the horizon is the coming monsoon. The June-through-September rainy season can lead to conditions that cut off supplies, spoil grain, trigger landslides and make life miserable even without earthquake damage. "It's going to rain," said Prem Lal Lamichhane, the chief district officer for Dolakha. "God help us when the monsoon strikes. Mud houses are blown away every year. The death toll is only going to rise."

Many people around Charikot have given up waiting for tents or more dependable shelter and are throwing up simple shacks made out of corrugated iron sheets, nailed to frames made from logs from nearby forests.

"I think that might be the best option right now with the monsoon coming. It's better than a tarpaulin," said Jake Zarins of Habitat for Humanity, part of a team assessing damage in Dolakha.

"The government can't address the people's needs in this crisis, so we need to help ourselves," said Shiva Bahadur Shiwakoti, who now lives in one of the trucks near the Shrestha family's vehicle.

People around Charikot tend to be subsistence farmers, growing enough food to feed themselves through the winter. The Dolakha district is known for its tasty potatoes and grows wheat. While both those harvests are coming in, there is nowhere at moment to store the crops to protect them from the elements.

Regular aftershocks continue to trigger landslides. A magnitude-4.9 aftershock caused more than a dozen on Friday. Rocks rained down on houses and the highway, filling the valley with dust that clogged the air and turned the river a muddy brown.

Regular quakes and the coming rains are going to make it impossible to rebuild, so the Shrestha family is digging in for the long haul in the back of their truck. "We'll stay here as long as six to eight months," Mr. Shrestha said. "There's no immediate plan to go home."

Access Investor Kit for NESTLE SA ORD REG

Visit http://www.companyspotlight.com/partner?cp_code=P479&isin=CH0038863350

Access Investor Kit for NESTLE SA ORD REG

Visit http://www.companyspotlight.com/partner?cp_code=P479&isin=US6410694060
</text>