<url>
http://www.oregonlive.com/clackamascounty/index.ssf/2015/05/oregon_firefighters_in_nepal_t.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Oregon firefighters in Nepal to reopen medical clinic
</headline>

<text>
Through snippets of text shorter than tweets, Stacey Borgman learns each day that her husband and father-in-law are OK amid the devastation in Nepal.

She, and other family members of five Portland-area residents reopening a medical clinic in the Gorkha district of Nepal, get these alerts sent using GPS between one and five times daily. They never know when the next one is coming.

Sometimes it arrives around 3 a.m., jolting her awake.

"Made it to village for the night."

"Another earthquake at 3a while sleeping. Still okay. We sleep in tents in a large open field."

After the second quake Tuesday, May 12:

"Had a wee earthquake and all are fine. It sounded like a train going thru village."

On Wednesday morning:

"Clinic is finished. We will wrap up our stay tomorrow and head to Pokhara. All is well. Stop watching the news! Media is not accurate."

At 4:54 a.m. Thursday, the group announced they had arrived in Pokhara. "Hotel and showers up next."

Borgman's husband, David Friedericks, is one of three firefighters and one medical technician who left for Nepal on May 5. Richard Friedericks, David's father, is accompanying them as a translator.

Other members include Heather Knight, Lisa Knight and Chris Butler. Heather Knight, on Facebook, Instagram and GPS site DeLorMe as RenegadePilgrim, has been responsible for posting updates.

The group hopes to reopen a medical clinic to serve survivors of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake that, according to the Associated Press, killed more than 5,500 people and injured close to 11,440 on April 29. Aftershocks around Kathmandu have continued to rock the country.

For David and Richard Friedericks, the mission has a special meaning. Both men spent a decade in Nepal, beginning in 1981 when David was 4 years old.

"It's a little bit hard for [David] because he remembers Nepal a certain way, and that was not how it was going to be when he went back," Borgman said. "He wanted to show me the Nepal he remembers."

But that Nepal is buried in rubble.

Loaded up and heading back to KTM. The locals are fine. They have food, shelter and clean water thanks to @sawyerproducts bucket kits. #nepalearthquake http://ift.tt/1Elwkix Posted by RenegadePilgrim on Saturday, May 9, 2015

The Friedericks family moved to Nepal in the 1980s to create health education media about medical treatment for community health and development issues, including leprosy.

Since 2009, as a media teacher at Hong Kong International School, Richard has taken groups of high school students to Pokhara each year.

"In this way I have kept up my involvement with Nepali people and my language skills," Richard wrote on his blog. "The goal of our small group of firefighters and me, the Nepali language interpreter, is to take relief supplies and go to Pokhara."

Once there, the group connected with the Rotary Club of Pokhara Annapurna through Richard's friend, Kiran Lal Shrestha. The club is organizing 1,500 "bucket packs" for villagers in need, and arranged for the Indian Army to deliver the same number of shelter boxes to the Nepal border for the Nepal Army to distribute among villages in the high mountains, Richard wrote.

David has always talked about wanting to go back to Nepal, his wife said. He has a love for it. But traveling is expensive, and the couple has three young children - 6-year-old twins and a 4-year-old.

A day or two after the April 29 earthquake, David asked his wife to sit down. He needed to ask her blessing on something, he told her.

"I knew what he was going to ask me," she said. "I know David wouldn't have it any other way. As much as it makes me nervous, I also know that he is doing what he needs to do and what he loves to do."

From what Borgman recalls, the idea was collective between a group of local firefighters, and David's experience in Nepal was the way in.

Group member Lisa Knight started a tilt fund for the group, with a goal of $10,000 to help cover plane tickets and supplies. They surpassed $13,000, but are still taking donations as long as they're in Nepal -- any extra will help them buy extra supplies for villagers.

The group has also been fundraising for the Firefighters For Nepal Fund.

They expect to return Tuesday, if the Nepal airport is open.

In the meantime, Borgman and David's children know their father is in a far away country, helping people who need shelter and their injuries fixed, Borgman said. She's been sparing them details about current earthquakes, because she knows they're worried about their dad.

"I think the twins understand it better than the youngest," she said. "The kids are very aware their dad is a firefighter. They think that's the coolest thing on earth."

David's mother-in-law is staying with Borgman while their husbands are gone, helping her with the kids and just being there. The situation is nerve-wracking, Borgman said. But those text messages are a small comfort.

-- Hannah Leone

hleone@oregonian.com

503-294-4001; @HannahMLeone
</text>