<url>
http://www.thetimesherald.com/story/news/local/2015/05/15/kimball-twp-native-working-relief-nepal/27361269/
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Kimball Twp. native working for relief in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Cody Tuttle, a Kimball Township native, has changed his efforts from documenting a mountain climbing expedition to assisting in the relief efforts following two earthquakes in the county. (Photo: Fenom Creative)

Cody Tuttle wasn't expecting his trip to Nepal this spring to be a relaxing one.

The 27-year-old Kimball Township native was leading a production team set to document an expedition of mountain climbers up Annapurna 1, the 10th highest, and one of the most deadly, mountains in the world. Tuttle, who now lives in California, is part owner of Fenom Creative, a production company that focuses on the stories of adventure athletes.

Tuttle, his wife Cherise, and the rest of the team were at the mountain's base camp when the first earthquake hit April 25.

Tuttle, a Port Huron High graduate, was eating lunch. His wife was resting in their tent.

Tuttle doesn't remember exactly what he was having for lunch, but expects it was the usual rice, covered in a lentil soup.

Above them lingered huge pieces of ice clinging to the mountain.

"We heard the sound and the rumbling, the shaking of the ground, our thought was the earthquake was going to cause those pieces of ice to fall on us," Tuttle said Wednesday by phone in Nepal.

News of the devastation followed soon after, through shortwave radio and satellite phone calls to friends. More than 8,000 people were killed in the 7.8 magnitude quake that flattened entire villages.

"We decided to abort our expedition and head down to the valleys to see what we could do to help," Tuttle said. "It didn't feel right to be up on the mountain, climbing for ourselves and our sponsors when an entire country was hurting."

But getting to those who needed help wasn't easy.

After running low on supplies, and with no idea when a helicopter would be able to escort them off the mountain, part of the team headed out. It took them 13 hours to make the usual two-day, harrowing hike.

Cody Tuttle is pictured 6000 meters above sea level at Camp2 of the north face of Annapurna 1 in Nepal. The Kimball Township native has changed his efforts from documenting a mountain climbing expedition to assisting in the relief efforts following two earthquakes in the county. (Photo: Fenom Creative)

Tuttle said a day later, a helicopter took them from Annapurna 1. From there, Tuttle said a jeep took them to Pokharah, a city of 265,000 people, 70 kilometers from the quake's epicenter, and their new base.

Tuttle and his team have spent days reaching remote villages, helping provide information to coordinate aid to them before monsoon season hits in the coming weeks.

A child splashes water on his face in the village of Baluwa in the Gorkha district of Nepal. Cody Tuttle, a Kimball Township native, is assisting in the relief efforts following to earthquakes. (Photo: Echo Giesel/Fenom Creative)

"We've been more accessing villages that nobody will go to, either too remote or too dangerous, and providing them with information, marking coordinates, coming up with a plan for aid to reach these remote mountain villages," he said. "We were just working rogue at first, but quickly teamed up with a group called Karma Flights."

Tuesday, another quake hit the county, 7.3-magnitude, leaving more dead.

"I just got back (to Pokhara) and it was kind of hard ... to see what was happening up there, but it was also hard to leave and know there was so much to be done, especially having the second earthquake — knowing the people you just talked to could be dead up there," Tuttle said.

"It's been really shocking when we're in Pokhara right now, where everything is perfectly fine ... and just a couple hours on a motorbike you pass by villages where not a single home is left standing."

Along with helping gather information, Tuttle has been taking and publishing photos and videos to help raise awareness and funds for the county through the Cloud Base Foundation, a nonprofit made up of paragliders and hang-glider pilots from around the world who give back to communities where they fly.

Tuttle and his wife will leave Nepal at the end of the month, with plans to return in September to try once more to document the mountain climbing expedition.

"Looking at the people, you'd never know they just went through such heavy disaster," he said. "It's definitely hard to see, a huge amount of loss up there."

A child is pictured in the village of Baluwa in the Gorkha district of Nepal. Kimball Township native Cody Tuttle is assisting in the relief efforts following two earthquakes. (Photo: Fenom Creative)

Tuttle said seeing and working with the people of Nepal in the relief efforts has changed his perspective.

"I think just seeing how these people have dealt with the situation, it really shows how strong you can be as the human race. And it just makes you realize a lot of the things I typically worry about back in the Untied States are incredibly petty compared to what these people are dealing."

A half a world away in Kimball Township, Tuttle's parents, Kathy and Todd, are proud, if not worried, about their son and daughter-in-law.

Cody Tuttle, a Kimball Township native, has changed his efforts from documenting a mountain climbing expedition to assisting in the relief efforts following two earthquakes in the county. (Photo: Fenom Creative)

"It's quite the test of faith," said Kathy. "We just have to have faith that he's in God's hands and there's nothing I can do about it. It's quite a roller coaster of emotions."

Kathy said one thing that has helped ease her worry is that her son was the one who told her about each quake, before she heard and saw the devastation on the news she had a message from him saying he was alive.

"I would have just melted," she said of hearing about the devastation before hearing from him. "I'm so proud of him."

"I think it's an admirable thing to do," his father, Todd, said. "I know he's a strong Christian and his faith is leading him in doing that stuff. I'm very proud of him."

HOW TO HELP

Donations can be made by visiting thecloudbasefoundation.org/site/donate, or morethansport.org/partner/nepalrelief.

Cody and Cherise Tuttle, second and third from the left, stand with their team in Nepal. Cody Tuttle, a Kimball Township native, is helping in the relief efforts following to earthquakes in the county. (Photo: Scott Rogers/Fenom Creative)

Read or Share this story: http://bwne.ws/1bUfUFU
</text>