<url>
http://www.plaintalk.net/community/article_89f2014a-fb10-11e4-a313-2b044a3fc86b.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Teen Missing In Nepal Quake Has Vermillion Connection
</headline>

<text>
A second major earthquake rocked Nepal on Tuesday registering a magnitude of 7.3. This time, it was located east of Kathmandu rather than west.

However, for former Vermillion resident Diane Jones Schumacher, her focus is still on the deadly quake that hit the country on April 25. The reason, her 19 year old daughter Sydney and a close friend Baily Meola, have not been heard from since.

Meola and Schumacher were traveling around the world after graduating from high school in 2014. The two met in Thailand in mid-April before flying to Kathmandu. Schumacher’s five-month journey began in January; she wrote on her travel blog of her plans to work on a farm in Hawaii after hiking in Nepal. Meola flew to Southeast Asia in February and planned to travel through Europe after the Langtang Valley trek.

The girls’ names remain on the master list of those missing from Langtang Valley and vigils have been held for them in their hometown of Seattle.

The earthquake, which left 8,000 dead, hit Kathmandu and the Langtang Valley, where Schumacher and Meola were staying, particularly hard.

In the two weeks since the first quake, Schumacher has been focused on staying positive in the search for her daughter and friend.

Sydney and Baily traveled to Nepal to see the famous Langtang Valley and Kyanjin Gompa monastery in Kathmandu.

The family said an anthropologist reported seeing the two on April 24, just one day before the 7.8 earthquake hit Nepal and aftershocks destroyed villages nearby.

One of the villages wiped out is Langtang, right near the girls’ last known campsite, according to the family.

Schumacher received word that her daughter is not in Kyanjin Gumba, where there are known survivors and the family had hoped the girls took cover.

Thanks in part to a fundraiser done on Indiegogo the Schumacher’s were able to send their sons, Will and Paul, to Nepal to help search for the girls.

Paul is Sydney`s older brother and he took the same hiking trip three years ago, so he knows what kind of conditions the girls face.

"You`re basically trekking up a valley between two peaks that are 4,000 feet above you," said Paul Schumacher in a story written by the Seattle Times.

In an update on the Indiegogo site, the family has posted: "We would like to share that the Schumacher brothers, Will and Paul have descended safely from the Langtang Valley and are due back in the States soon. We wish to thank all of you for your support in allowing this undertaking to happen. The ability to send Will and Paul over to Nepal not only enabled us to have eyes and feet on the ground but allow those of us who couldn’t be there feel we had a strong connection to the search for Bailey and Sydney. We are very thankful for their bravery and tenacity in this mission."

"I`m just trying to go there, and I want to get a helicopter and go fly the places I think she could be and look," said Paul Schumacher, prior to leaving.

Yet with the earthquake that struck Nepal Tuesday, it is likely news of the girls will remain hard to come by.

In the meantime, the girls’ parents and community continue to hope and pray for their safe return.

To support the search for Sydney and Bailey go to: https://life.indiegogo.com/fundraisers/1244905.

The Associated Press and Janelle Carlson contributed to this article.
</text>