<url>
http://www.aircargonews.com/0515/150514/Logistics-Failing-Nepal.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Logistics Failing Nepal
</headline>

<text>


SkyKing with Suman from the village of Sindhupalchowk, where many families have been rendered homeless.

(SkyKing In Nepal)— The humanitarian relief effort into Nepal is being hampered by a failing logistics network, which is in danger of leaving as many as a million people without adequate food and shelter ahead of the June monsoon season.



The April 25th, 7.8 earthquake destroyed hundreds of thousands of houses and left large swaths of Nepal with no road access. Tuesday’s 7.3 quake caused further damage and landslides which have made road access even more difficult.

The U.N. concedes that countless families in mid-hills areas and at higher altitudes have been rendered homeless, many without medicine, shelter or food, and have still not received any humanitarian aid.

Multiple sources on the ground - local villagers and NGOs - also confirm that relief has also still not even reached villages which are close to roads and within just a few hours of the capital of Kathmandu, despite time running out before the monsoon season, which will make providing aid far more challenging.

Chris Weeks, DHL Director for Humanitarian Affairs who heads up DHL’s Disaster Response Team (DRT) which has been helping the air cargo handling operation on the apron since April 27, called what is currently happening “The Perfect Disaster”.

“We have a 7.8 earthquake in a poor mountainous country wedged between two strong wannabe superpowers [India and China] with a single runway international airport, no seaport and 15-day road links in a race against time to feed and shelter hundreds of thousands of people before the monsoon season starts,” he said.

The logistics effort is also being hampered by bureaucracy, which is driving up the time it takes to truck into land-locked Nepal from India to over two weeks, instead of five days.

The UN’s World Food Programme (WFP), which is co-ordinating the humanitarian logistics for all NGOs, lacks funds, equipment and access to military assets.

“We have a few civilian helicopters to find people in need,” said Alex Marianelli, regional Logistics Officer at the WFP. “For all of our operations, especially at higher altitudes, we need to first scope who needs help and where they are. But without enough helicopters this is difficult.”

The UN’s effort has been further hindered after a UK aid package which included three Chinook helicopters ideal for deployment in Nepal were refused permits to operate. They remain on standby in India and their handling equipment, including a K Loader at KTM, stands unusable.

As a result of the lack of trucks, and the bureaucracy experienced at the India-Nepal customs intersection, most of the inbound relief effort continues to focus on air freight.

Nepal has only one international airport – Tribhuvan Kathmandu International Airport (KTM) – able to receive freighters. KTM has just nine parking stands and one runway. It lacks dollies, slave pallets and forklift trucks. The runway was damaged soon after the earthquake relief effort began. The upshot is a 196 tons landing and take-off limit which has pushed the emphasis on aid onto smaller IL76s rather than the larger freighters required. Charter costs for NGOs have soared as a result.

The relief effort via KTM is also being hindered by geopolitics and red-tape. The rival militaries, including the U.S., are competing for landing permits and space and, despite the severity and urgency of the situation, passenger flights are still being given priority over chartered aid freighters by Nepali authorities. The result is that over 500m tons of relief cargo is currently awaiting delivery by air from Delhi. Hundreds of tons more is being also stored at airports around the Middle East.

After Tuesday’s earthquake multiple freighter landings were cancelled and reports received by FlyingTypers yesterday and today reveal a working environment at KTM that is not improving.

One charter representative on the ground told FT today that the difficulty of organizing permits had in fact further increased in recent days with Nepali authorities requiring full cargo details and AOCs from consignees before granting permits. Even when permits are secured, they are often subsequently cancelled.

“If anything, the situation is getting worse,” said the charterer. “They cancelled my slot and many others’ yesterday. We are still hitting a brick wall everywhere we turn. I’m running in circles trying to get all the correct paperwork.”

A spokesman for Volga Dnepr said the company appreciated the enormity of the humanitarian challenge the Nepalese authorities were dealing with. But he added: “It is very challenging to get slots and landing permits and this is resulting in delays in terms of the transportation of aid into Nepal.
</text>