<url>
https://www.tapinto.net/towns/livingston/sections/giving-back/articles/livingston-sunrise-rotary-club-is-raising-funds-f
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club is Raising Funds for the Nepal Relief Fund
</headline>

<text>
LIVINGSTON, NJ — The Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club is collaborating with Rotary Club of Dillibazar, Club No 52113 under Rotary International District 3292 Nepal and Bhutan, in the wake of the 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Nepal. The town’s rotary is joining Rotary Clubs around the world in collecting funds for emerging relief efforts in Nepal, such as: new shelter materials, clean water supplies, hygiene and cooking kits.

According to the Livingston Rotary Club, community support through checks made payable to Livingston Sunrise Rotary Fund, directly funds the responders who can get the necessary emergency aid to those who need it most. Mail donations can be sent to Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club, P.O Box 37, Livingston, New Jersey or residents can visit www.livingstonrotary.org to donate via credit, debit or PayPal.

“We want to take the lead in Livingston to assist with the tragedy in Nepal,” Livingston Area Chamber of Commerce President and active Rotary Club member Monte Ehrenkranz said. “The Livingston Sunrise Rotary has a personal connection with President Jayendra Rimal of the Rotary Club of Dillibazar in Kathmandu, Nepal. One of our members, Dr. Padam Neopane, is his brother in law.”

Sign Up for E-News

The Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club lives by the motto: “Service Above Self.” According to the “Basic Principles of Rotary,” Rotarians are to become aware of their cultures and learn to love and work with people everywhere. The Club’s cultural awareness principles also state that around the world, “every religion, country, culture, race, creed, political persuasion, language, color and ethnic identity is found in Rotary.” The Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club’s efforts in the Nepal Relief Fund uphold their goals and principles as a club.

“Under their auspices, we are confident the donations we collect will be successfully channeled into the hands of those actually suffering,” Ehrenkranz said. “No small matter.”

Neopane had previously informed his brother in law that he had attended meetings for the Livingston Rotary Club and expressed his desire to become a member of the club in addition to his interests in its activities. Rimal wrote the Livingston Rotary Club from Nepal expressing his interest in working with them.

“I briefed my Club meeting about the visit, and we will be further discussing it in our upcoming board meeting,” Rimal said in his greetings. “We are excited and looking forward to working together in due course of time.”





The Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club’s close personal connection with the President of the Dillibazar Rotary Club in Kathmandu, Nepal is all the more reason for Ehrenkranz and the other members to get the Livingston community on board in helping Nepal. The 7.3 and 7.8 magnitude earthquakes in May and April caused thousands of deaths and left hundreds of thousands of people homeless—their villages flattened in the quake.

According to NBC News, countless Nepalis will face years of anxiety and depression in the wake of these recurring earthquakes and hundreds of aftershocks. Because the second quake came just as survivors were gaining back a sense of security, NBC said they are now living in fear of another deadly earthquake.

The Livingston Sunrise Rotary Club encourages Livingston Township to get behind Nepal in the wake of these tragedies.

To get more news like this daily, click HERE to subscribe to TAP into Livingston and also “like” us on Facebook. Share TAP’s story in social media.
</text>