<url>
http://www.torontosun.com/2015/04/25/torontos-nepalese-community-hoping-for-the-best-back-home
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Toronto's Nepalese community hoping for the best back home
</headline>

<text>
TORONTO -

When a major earthquake struck his homeland of Nepal, the first call Vishal Burathoki made was to his elderly parents.

Considering the devastation to infrastructure caused by the 7.9 magnitude quake, it wasn’t easy to get through.

“We managed to get a brief cellphone signal (Friday) night and they seemed to be okay,” Burathoki said Saturday.

Contact with loved ones back home has been “very difficult,” he added. He and his wife have accounted for their immediate family members but some distant relatives are still out of their reach.

“The thing is, you can’t do anything,” Burathoki said.

He and several members of the GTA’s Nepalese community were gathered in the same building as Nepal’s consulate near Yonge St. and Eglinton Ave. E. Saturday afternoon.

A floor above them, Kali Pokhrel — Nepal’s ambassador to Canada — described the earthquake as the worst natural disaster the country has seen in several decades.

“This is something we have not experienced in our lifetime,” Pokhrel said, who said falling debris killed one of his relatives, one of more than 1,300 fatalities reported.

He has family members back in Kathmandu, including his daughter. He too experienced difficulty trying to reach them on the phone, until his daughter eventually called him back to report they were safe but not at home.

“Everybody is out on the street, out in the open field, to find a secure place, just in case the aftershock is more terrible than the original tremor,” Pokhrel explained.

The earthquake also laid waste to a number of heritage sites, including the Dharahara tower, which was built in 1832.

“It’s a great loss for Nepal and Nepal’s identity,” Pokhrel noted.

A World Vision Canada worker from Toronto attending a conference in Nepal found herself unexpectedly caught in the earthquake.

Reena Vohra, a World Vision child protection specialist, said in a statement she had “never experienced anything like this.”

She was visiting a town close to Kathmandu with colleagues when the ground began to shake and they ran for cover.

“Buildings were crumbling all around us,” Vohra said. “When it felt safe, we ran to an open space where we were able to see the devastation of the ancient pagodas and temples that we had literally just visited an hour before.”

Foreign Affairs Canada reported 388 Canadians registered in Nepal, but the agency cautioned that this was only an estimate as registration is voluntary.

Pokhrel said he hopes to connect with the Canadian government over the weekend.

“The government (of Nepal) has requested all friendly countries to offer their humanitarian assistance in whatever form they can,” he said.
</text>