<url>
http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/nepal-second-earthquake-horror-mountains-5699125
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Nepal second earthquake horror: 'Mountains to crumble around us as our helicopter tried to escape'
</headline>

<text>
Get daily updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

Emma Pedley watched from within a helicopter as the houses and mountains around her crumbled and the pilot was forced to desperately evacuate the area.

Recalling the moment on May 12 she said: “I don't feel like I experienced the earthquake, I watched it.

"We were seconds away from touching down when it hit. At first I thought it was the helicopter rotor blades causing the houses to fall down and I tried to warn the pilot but then suddenly all around us was a 360degree landslide.

"I could see people outside running away from collapsing houses as the pilot tried to pull back up into the air. It was horrible to back away from them and leave them."

(Image: Emma Pedley)

Emma and her colleagues at Médecins Sans Frontières, were visiting the remote village of Simigaun near the Tibetan borders.

“We'd just done two village assessments and were landing for our third of the day;" said Emma speaking from MSF's base in Kathmandu.

"We were metres off the ground, landing on a flattish bit of the mountain side when it hit.

“All I could hear was the helicopter blades. We had our headsets on and I could hear the pilot, our doctor and our ops safety guy all shouting as it happened. It was a visually overwhelming experience.

“The pilot had to do everything he could to gain height quickly so we could get away from the mountain sides. I don't know what would have happened if we'd arrived minutes earlier.”

Returning to Kathmandu, Emma said she had a difficult night worrying about the people left behind in the villages: “It was on my mind a lot whether they survived. We'd hovered for a long time trying to work out what to do next but we were forced to return to base.”

The 34-year-old accident and emergency returned to Simiguan the next day and was amazed to find that none of the 500 villagers were injured.

“There were a couple of minor injuries, but luckily it was a dry day and people had been outside when it hit.

“One old lady's legs were crushed and there were a few head injuries from rocks and tin roofs falling. Many people had been in the process of trying to rebuild.

“I can't imagine what it's like watching your home crumble in front of you just as you start to rebuild it.”

(Image: Emma Pedley)

Emma has been in Nepal since April 28th. An MSF veteran, she was at home near Bath resting after a mission to the Central African Republic.

“Nepal is somewhere that i really really love. The Nepalese people are so warm and welcoming. But their houses aren't built to withstand earthquakes. Stone houses are just reduced to nothing.”

Emma warned now that another crisis looms that is putting pressure on her and her team to help people in the remote areas they are visitng. Monsoon landslides.

(Image: Emma Pedley)

She said: “The monsoons are starting in a few weeks. As soon as it starts to rain we won't be able to access these villages via helicopter.

"We've only got a small window to help and get medical care to people." There's no doubt in her mind that the heavy rains will trigger more landslides.

“You can see the cracks in the hill terraces from the earthquake damage. I dread to think about the effect the rain will have and the damage that will happen. It will be off the scale.

“There will be more casualties and it's going to be so hard to get to them then. All we can do now is try and make sure they have all the supplies and are ready for it when it comes.”

To donate to MSF visit msf.org.uk
</text>