<url>
http://amarillo.com/news/local-news/2015-05-15/amarillo-natives-help-earthquake-ravaged-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Amarillo natives assist Nepal's quake victims
</headline>

<text>
Provided Art Nyatapola Temple in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) living World Heritage center in Katmandu, Nepal. The Presidential Scholars from Amarillo College traveled to Nepal in January for a cultural immersion and community service trip where many students became attached to the Nepali people and cultural customs. Tuesday's magnitude-7.4 earthquake, killed more than 100 people and injured more than 2,300. The 7.8 devastating earthquake that hit April 25 killed more than 8,150 people, injured thousands more and left hundreds of thousands homeless. The students are raising money for Phase Nepal, a non-profit that aims to break the cycle of poverty by assisting communities and local authorities to lay the groundwork for a self-sufficient future.

Provided Art Nyatapola Temple in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) living World Heritage center in Katmandu, Nepal. The Presidential Scholars from Amarillo College traveled to Nepal in January for a cultural immersion and community service trip where many students became attached to the Nepali people and cultural customs. Tuesday's magnitude-7.4 earthquake, killed more than 100 people and injured more than 2,300. The 7.8 devastating earthquake that hit April 25 killed more than 8,150 people, injured thousands more and left hundreds of thousands homeless. The students are raising money for Phase Nepal, a non-profit that aims to break the cycle of poverty by assisting communities and local authorities to lay the groundwork for a self-sufficient future.

As people in Nepal were working to establish some sense of normalcy from the earthquake that hit April 25, a second one hit Tuesday that reignited the fears many tried hard to work past.

“Just finally starting to relax ... from the first (earthquake) ... and this one hit,” said Sarai Smith, 29, an Amarillo High School graduate who works for the humanitarian aid outfit MountainChild. “Everyone is scared again (still), and back outside in tents.”

Tuesday’s 7.4-magnitude quake killed more than 100 and injured more than 2,300.

The 7.8-magnitude quake that hit April 25 killed more than 8,150 people, injured thousands more and left hundreds of thousands homeless.

“It’s weird hearing about Nepal’s ‘second earthquake’ in the news or on Facebook,” Smith said. “We’ve had over 150 earthquakes or aftershocks since April 25. I wish it was only the second earthquake.”

Sarai Smith, a 2003 Amarillo High graduate, and husband Scott Smith have lived in Nepal while working for MountainChild for four years.

MountainChild’s mission is to help educate and protect children in the Himalayas.

On May 6, the Smiths and other volunteers flew by helicopter to the village of Sama in the Nubri Valley to bring relief supplies to the remote area.

“They are completely cut off from the road, and have no way to access supplies and food,” Sarai Smith said. “Yet they constantly gave us rice, meat, coffee, tea, noodles and Coke.”

The helicopters are provided by the U.S. and India, she said.

“There’s so many organizations and foreigners who have come in to help,” she said. “There are a lot of resources right now for the relief phase.”

For more than a week, Amarillo-based Christian Relief Fund has had a disaster team in Nepal providing food distribution, tents, medical help, counseling and assessing structural damage, said Milton Jones, president of the fund.

“Depending on when the earthquakes stop, we’ll send in a construction crew that’ll help rebuild houses,” he said. “We can rebuild a house for about $4,000.”

With hundreds of thousands of people still homeless, Nepal Prime Minister Sushil Koirala has growing concerns with monsoon season lurking right around the corner.

There is also a shortage of tarps and tents in Kathmandu, with some people resorting to the use of cardboard boxes as temporary shelters.

“That’s another major need, structural engineers who need to go around and look at homes and tell people if they can go in or not, because so many people are just living in fear,” Sarai Smith said. “The main problems are June through August, it rains almost every day, but once the rainy season starts, it’s going to be pretty miserable living in tents.”

That’s why some Amarillo College students who traveled to Nepal in January are eagerly trying to raise money for the earthquake victims: They experienced first-hand what it’s like to live in a Nepalese village.

“It gets really cold at night,” said Jenna Hooten, a sophomore and presidential scholar at AC. “It was like 35 degrees when we were there, and they don’t have heating. Now that the monsoon season is coming, it’s going to rain a lot, and they’re going to be out there wet and cold ... can you imagine?”

The 19-year-old said her heart breaks for the Nepalese people.

“One of the main areas that we went to was Durbar Square, and I saw a video of some of the temples that I have pictures of,” Hooten said. “Many of those places that we visited are now rubble. It’s just hard seeing the Nepalese people going through this. They are the kindest people by far I’ve ever met.”

The AC Presidential Scholar group chose to support PHASE (Practical Help Achieving Self Empowerment) Nepal, a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization.

“When the students went to Nepal, they each donated $100 to PHASE Nepal,” AC Honors Program Coordinator Judy Carter said. “Overall, our contributions will probably be around $2,600, but we selected them because they teach the Nepalese people how to be self-sustaining, and we can easily wire donations to them.”

As for Smith, she and her husband are taking a short hiatus to visit their families, whom they haven’t seen in months.

“At first I was going back and forth on if I really wanted to leave with all that’s going on,” she said. “But we decided that we needed this time to recover so we can return to Nepal rested and ready to help again.”

The Associated Press contributed to this story.
</text>