<url>
http://www.upenn.edu/pennnews/news/penn-student-leads-nepali-earthquake-relief-effort
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Penn Student Leads Nepali Earthquake Relief Effort
</headline>

<text>
Penn Student Leads Nepali Earthquake Relief Effort

After a major earthquake hit Nepal on April 25, University of Pennsylvania graduate student Sandeep Shah felt helpless.

But, he also knew that his interdisciplinary background in social work, finance and philanthropy could help those who needed it the most.

Born and raised in Kathmandu, Nepal, where his parents, siblings, nieces and nephews still reside, Shah relocated to the United States in 2003. While working as a banker in California, he assisted Bhutanese refugees and other low-income populations, helping them achieve financial literacy.

Then, he decided to pursue a dual-degree at Penn. While working as a clinical research coordinator, Shah earned his master’s degree in social work from the School of Social Policy & Practice in 2014. He is also working to complete a master of public health degree from Penn’s Perelman School of Medicine in December.

“My social work and public health degrees have taught me how I can effectively collaborate with different partners, advocate for important causes and reach out to people who might be able to offer help,” Shah says.

This personal and academic experience led Shah to found the Nepali Earthquake Relief Fund, a University-wide effort.

In collaboration with the South East Asian Mutual Assistance Association Coalition, or SEAMAAC, Shah is working to raise funds for the earthquake victims. But his fundraising is not only limited to traditional emergency relief, like providing immediate medical aid, shelter and food. It’s also focused on preventing the sex trafficking of children and women in that region.

While the primary focus of the government and other non-governmental organizations has been on providing relief, Shah says it is also important to protect vulnerable children and women from being exploited.

Shah says that historically, Nepal has had problems with human trafficking.

According to the National Commission for Human Rights in Nepal, in 2013 and 2014, more than 13,000 children were trafficked outside the country.

“The current situation is even more dangerous because people are desperate for help and will trust anybody,” Shah says, adding that the risk of being exploited by human traffickers is higher for single women, children and widows.

He says that people are migrating rapidly from the earthquake-ravaged villages to other places, which creates an environment that’s ripe for traffickers.

“There are already reports that traffickers have started targeting children and adolescent girls for jobs as fake aid workers,” Shah says. “The chances of abduction or being lured away are very high.”

Shah says that 100 percent of the money collected in the Nepali Earthquake Relief Fund will be sent to grassroots organizations that are already actively involved in the community.

“Our focus will be primarily on providing support to the rural areas of Nepal, where people are still waiting for emergency relief,” Shah says. “So far, we have identified a few agencies in Nepal and very soon we will add more.”

The Office of Student Affairs at Penn says this is a way for the University community to stand with its Nepalese students, who are eager to help the people in their home country.

“Efforts like this are a wonderful example of Penn’s commitment to a globalized campus community and demonstrate how we can support our students here in Philadelphia and across the world,” says Katie Hanlon Bonner, executive director of student affairs.

But for Shah this fundraising initiative helps to address his own feelings of helplessness. He’s helping the best way that he can by mobilizing resources here to support philanthropic efforts.

According to researchers at Penn’s Center for High Impact Philanthropy, after a disaster, it is often difficult to find credible information about what’s happening on the ground in real time.

“Initiatives like Shah’s, which seek to understand the evolving needs of the people most affected and the local organizations best-positioned to help, are essential when trying to understand how donors can best direct their funding,” says Carol McLaughlin, research director at CHIP.

During his first year at the School of Social Policy & Practice, Shah worked for SEAMAAC as a health and human services intern, capitalizing on his fluency in English, Nepali and Hindi and some skill with Punjabi.



He continued working with the Bhutanese community, providing translation services, advocacy and individualized case management, including needs assessments focusing on public benefits, educational resources, health care, financial literacy and classes in English as a second language.

John Jackson Jr., dean of the School of Social Policy & Practice, says Shah’s actions are aligned with the School’s vision of “the pursuit of social innovation, impact and justice.

“Our students are the helpers of the world, and their work addresses concerns across the board; in this case, raising funds to provide relief to those who have experienced massive devastation in Nepal."

In addition, Shah has established a network of Nepali students across Penn to try to provide personal support for these students, many of whom are struggling with the fact that they are not in Nepal and are unable to assist on the ground.

“I try to bring in others so that they feel they are part of something that will hopefully make lives of some Nepali people better,” says Shah.

He says that by supporting this initiative, donors can help to bring some normality into the lives of some Nepali people.

“Thousands of lives are lost and still counting, and any help can make a difference and potentially save lives,” Shah says.
</text>