<url>
http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3082886/Wreckage-missing-U-S-Marine-helicopter-despite-claims-landed-safely-Nepalese-army-confirm-no-news-eight-people-aboard.html
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Pilot Chris Norgren of US helicopter that crashed in Nepal on earthquake relief mission pictured
</headline>

<text>
The pilot of the US Marine helicopter that came down in Nepal during an earthquake relieft mission has been named as Captain Chris Norgren.

The 31-year-old died along with seven others, including five Marines, when the Huey chopper crashed onto the steep mountain slopes of Gorthali, east of Kathmandu.

A spokesman for the military said that the eight bodies recovered were not recognizable because of the severity of the crash, but confirmed that Norgren, of Wichita, Kansas was the pilot.

Scroll down for videos

Capt. Chris Norgren was flying the U.S. Marine helicopter that disappeared Tuesday, May 12, 2015, while delivering disaster aid to earthquake victims in Nepal according to his father Ronald Norgren

"He loved to fly, and he went through rigorous training sessions at Camp Pendleton," said father his father about the Marine facility in Southern California.

"He was a very compassionate and caring person," his mother, Terri Norgren, told CNN's Anderson Cooper. "He wanted to help people. That's the whole reason he went over there. He told me 'Mom, somebody's got to do this. And this is what I'm supposed to be doing.'"

According to CNN, Captain Norgren was a star high school football player and studied at Missouri University of Science and Technology in Rolla.

The Huey helicopter, which was carrying six U.S. marines and two Nepalese soldiers, was discovered on a hillside 11,200 feet up near Ghorthali early on Friday morning by a Nepalese army helicopter.

The aircraft was reported missing after a devastating 7.3 magnitude earthquake hit the country, just two weeks after more than 8,200 people were killed in an earlier one.

The wreckage of a U.S. military helicopter that went missing on Tuesday in Nepal has been found completely destroyed with no survivors, officials have confirmed. Above, Nepal army special forces prepare to search for debris

Ishwori Prasad Paudyal, the country's defense secretary, said: 'The wreckage of the helicopter was found in pieces and there are no chances of any survivors.'

Three bodies have been found at the site so far, although their nationalities have not yet been revealed.

Binoj Basnyat, Nepal's chief of army operations, confirmed ground troops were sent to the wreckage, which is at an elevation of around 3,300m and near dense forest.

He said: 'It was found on a steep slope. Based on information from the Nepali army, the site has been spotted.'

A U.S. rescue team was also deployed to assess the site, a spokesman for U.S. Pacific Command said.

John Wissler, commander of the joint task force investigating the disappearance, said: 'We can confirm that we have located the wreckage... it is unlikely there are any survivors.

'Due to the extremely difficult terrain of the site of the mishap, below-freezing temperatures and violent winds and thunderstorms, I made the decision to cease the recovery efforts for this evening.

The helicopter, which was carrying six U.S. marines and two Nepalese soldiers, was discovered on a hillside near Ghorthali early on Friday morning by a Nepalese army helicopter. Above, troops listen to orders about the search

The special forces ensure their equipment is ready to start further searches of the wreckage on Friday morning

The helicopter was discovered on a hillside near the village of Ghorthali, around 42 miles east of the country's capital Kathmandu

'We cannot afford to put U.S. or Nepalese service members at any further risk.'

The U.S. Embassy in Nepal made no immediate comment.

The helicopter was on a rescue and relief mission following the second earthquake, as areas in the mountainous region are not reachable road.

Its discovery comes despite despite claims by Nepali media that the aircraft landed safely on Wednesday and that all eight on board were safe.

A tweet from the Finance Minister of Nepal Ram Sharan Mahat posted on Wednesday said: 'Report says missing US chopper with crew safe in Singati power substation,Dolakha. Cannot fly due to land slide nearby.'

But Pentagon spokesman Lt. Col. Jeffrey Pool told Dailymail.com the reports were false.

A statement said: 'As of May 13, 8:35pm, Japanese Standard Time, the search for six U.S. Marines and two Nepalese service members aboard the missing UH-1Y Huey continues.

The discovery comes despite despite claims by Nepali media that the aircraft landed safely on Wednesday and that all eight on board were safe

But a tweet from AirLive.net stated that the helicopter has not been found and that the reports by Nepali media are misinformed

'Two UH-1Y Hueys with Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, and two MV-22B Ospreys from Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron 262, flew nine sorties and approximately 21 flight hours in search of the missing aircraft. Flight operations are still ongoing.'

Some suggested the helicopter was suffering from fuel problems before it came down.

Army Colonel Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman, said an Indian helicopter working in the quake zone had overheard radio chatter from the U.S. helicopter about 'fuel issues' in the hours before it went missing.

He said: 'There has been no [emergency] beacon, no other signs — no flames, no smoke, no hole in the ground — to indicate that there was a crash.'

'That said of course it's very rugged and difficult terrain.'

The Himalayan nation is still reeling from last month's devastating quake measuring 7.8 that killed more than 8,000 people and injured close to 20,000.

The U.S. Air Force get ready for an earlier search and rescue mission

Edward Powers, commanding officer of Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469, briefs his men moments before an earlier search and rescue mission for the UH-1Y Huey, which was delivering aid to remote villages when it went missing

Tuesday's quake and subsequent aftershocks forced many panic-stricken Nepalis to spend yet another night outdoors in makeshift tents and relief camps.

In the district capital Charikot military helicopters carried wounded people to an open-air clinic after buildings collapsed and landslides struck.

Others alternated between evacuating and helping find the missing helicopter, which some say lost radio contact after its crew was heard talking about fuel problems.

Nepal Home Ministry official Laxmi Prasad Dahal previously said he feared the helicopter search was diverting resources from relief and rescue operations.

He said: 'The work of sending relief and rescuing the injured people to hospitals has been delayed due to this.'

Lt. Col. Powers, from Brookings, Oregon, coordinated the search and rescue mission at the Tribhuvan International Airport, Kathmandu, Nepal on Wednesday

A U.S. Air Force pararescue man prepares to start a new search the helicopter on Wednesday. The wreckage has now been found

Nepalese service members load relief supplies into a U.S. Marine Corps aircraft the day before the helicopter, thought to be the same type, went missing

Dahal said there were 55 dead in Dolakha.

Aula Bahadur Ale, the assistant administrator of the district, said: 'It looks like a graveyard here.

'Even those houses that have not been flattened have developed cracks. People are too afraid to go into them. We are still feeling the aftershocks that makes people terrified.'

A police official in Kathmandu said 1,928 people had been injured in Tuesday's quake, which also killed 17 people in neighbouring India.

The tremors have left areas of Nepal perilously unstable, leading to fears of more landslides, especially when seasonal monsoon rains begin to fall in the coming weeks.
</text>