<url>
http://www.macclesfield-express.co.uk/news/macclesfield-unites-support-nepal-after-9265899
</url>

<date>
20150515
</date>

<headline>
Macclesfield unites to support Nepal after earthquake
</headline>

<text>
Get weekly updates directly to your inbox + Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! Could not subscribe, try again later Invalid Email

MAXONIANS have continued to fundraise and offer support to the victims of the Nepalese earthquakes.

Thousands have died and untold damaged caused after the major disaster hit the country.

The first earthquake killed relatives of Hari Neupane, 47, from Macclesfield, who is originally from Nepal.

Residents rallied to raise hundreds of pounds at a fundraiser at Gurkha Dining, on Samuel Street, a Nepalese restaurant Hari co-owns.

Since then a second earthquake has poured fresh misery on Nepal.

Children at Prestbury Primary School have done their bit to help by holding a non-uniform day and raising £1,000.

This money will go to ShelterBox, a disaster relief charity which sends volunteers and boxes which supply families with a tent and lifesaving equipment.

The school has close connections to Chris Warham from Rainow, who is a trustee of the charity currently out in Nepal helping the tens of thousands of families left homeless by the disaster.

Headteacher David Capener said: “The plight of people Nepal really caught the imagination of the children. Our school motto is ‘Let your light shine’ and I’m delighted that our children’s light will shine on families in Nepal that have lost everything.”

Meanwhile, Macclesfield-based animal charity has been at the heart of rescue work in the remote regions of Nepal.

The Himalayan Animal Treatment Centre (UK) is run by Barbara Webb and Jim Pearson and has funded the rescue thousands of dogs and cattle caught up in the devastation.

Barbara, who set up the charity in 2006 after experiences they had on holiday in Nepal, said she has been in daily contact with Nepalese staff who have already carried out multiple missions into areas largely cut off from support.

She said: “These are exhausting and intimidating journeys for our personnel. Homes have totally collapsed on top of food stores and our team has supplied dry food and medical support for both people and animals.

“We are so grateful for the donations that have already arrived in our office. This will provide support not only in the immediate days following the earthquake but will give families and their animals an opportunity to try to rebuild their lives in the months to come.”
</text>