<url>
http://www.colombopage.com/archive_15A/Apr26_1430055218CH.php
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Sri Lanka : Sri Lanka sends medical team to assist Nepal in earthquake relief efforts
</headline>

<text>
Leading News from Sri Lanka::

* Sri Lanka sends medical team to assist Nepal in earthquake relief efforts

Sun, Apr 26, 2015, 07:03 pm SL Time, ColomboPage News Desk, Sri Lanka.

Apr 26, Colombo: Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has instructed to rush medical teams and specialized search and rescue units to Nepal to assist the rescue and recovery effects after a massive earthquake hit the Himalayan country.

Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe spoke to the President of Nepal Ram Bran Yadav over the phone and offered condolences of the Sri Lankan government and people over the loss of lives.

He assured that Sri Lanka is with Nepal at this unfortunate time and will assist the anyway it can.

The Prime Minister also had a telephone conversation with Nepali Prime Minister Sushil Koirala yesterday.

The President Maithripala Sirisena has also condoled to the Nepal leaders over yesterday's natural disaster and expressed his deepest sympathy for the victims and their families on behalf of the Sri Lankan government and its people. The President has pledged to extend Sri Lanka's utmost support for the relief activities.

A special discussion in this connection was held at the President Secretariat under the patronage of President's Secretary P B Abeykoon last evening.

Doctors and rescue workers are being rushed to help the victims in Nepal and Sri Lanka will work closely with the authorities in Nepal to provide them with any assistance they may require.

A C-130 Hercules aircraft of Sri Lanka Air Force (SLAF) carrying a team of military doctors, nurses and medical assistants arrived at the Kathmandu airport this morning to assist the relief efforts.

The Sri Lankan government said Nepal needs medical staff and equipment at present and urged the medical professionals including doctors, nurses and attendants who are willing to volunteer their services in Nepal to contact Assistant Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office Ruwan Gunawardena on 071 249 2484.

The 7.8 magnitude earthquake that struck an area of central Nepal between Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara on Saturday morning has killed over 2.300 people and injured nearly 5,000 people.

Nepal authorities expect the death toll to rise as some remote areas affected by the earthquake remain cut off or hard to access.

Sri Lanka has acquired expertise in dealing with major natural disasters following the December 2004 Asian tsunami which claimed over 30,000 lives and destroyed coastal infrastructure of the island.
</text>