<url>
http://www.shanghaidaily.com/national/Chinese-medical-team-arrives-to-help-relief-efforts-in-Nepal/shdaily.shtml
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Chinese medical team arrives to help relief efforts in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Home » Nation

A 58-STRONG medical team from China arrived in Nepal yesterday morning.

The team, from southwest China’s Sichuan Province, brought with them 13 tons of medical aid and are expected to stay for about 10 days.

On Sunday, a 62-strong China International Search and Rescue Team had arrived in Nepal.

The People’s Liberation Army Air Force has made several planes available to help with rescue operations.

Two IL-76 planes were sent to an airport in Chengdu, Sichuan’s capital, and one IL-76 plane has been placed at an airport in Kunming, capital of nearby Yunnan Province, to transport PLA rescuers and equipment to Nepal.

“Soldiers for this mission are experienced in conducting overseas military operations,” Colonel Shen Jinke said.

The Ilyushin IL-76 transport aircraft is a multi-purpose four-engine aircraft widely used in Europe, Asia and Africa.

A team of 55 PLA soldiers left for Nepal yesterday aboard the plane from Kunming. Another team of 45 soldiers is due to leave for Nepal today.

The soldiers are taking with them four sniffer dogs, five recovery vehicles and rescue equipment, including life detection equipment and entry tools.

They are experienced in earthquake rescue missions and participated in past operations for the deadly earthquakes in Wenchuan and Lushan, both in Sichuan, and Ludian in Yunnan.

The team will conduct rescue operations, provide medical aid and offer psychological counseling after arriving in the Nepalese capital.

Meanwhile, four Chinese nationals — two workers with a Chinese company, a mountain climber and a tourist — were killed and five others seriously injured in the quake, the Chinese Embassy has confirmed.

Five people from Hong Kong have still not been in touch with their families, Hong Kong’s Immigration Department said yesterday.

Three immigration officers flew to Nepal yesterday to assist in finding these people and would be liaising with the Chinese embassy there to seek help in locating them, the department said.

Chinese airlines have brought more than 1,600 nationals home, China’s foreign ministry said.

“Within two days of the quake, 12 Chinese civil jets had carried more than 1,600 Chinese stranded at the Kathmandu Airport in Nepal,” the ministry said last night.
</text>