<url>
http://english.cri.cn/12394/2015/04/26/191s876048.htm
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Powerful Quake Strikes Nepal, Death Toll to Reach 1500
</headline>

<text>
The death toll from the series of quakes which struck Nepal now stands at 1,475, including at least 4 Chinese nationals.



The rescue operation is still underway.



Because the epicenter was so close to the Nepalese capital, the death toll is expected to rise further.



For more details, CRI's Sophie Williams joins me in the studio now.



Hundreds and thousands of Nepalese have spent their night in open air after a powerful earthquake struck the country on Saturday.



In the capital city of Kathmandu, residents have been left homeless after the quake collapsed their houses and a series of aftershocks were reported.



"We are hearing rumours that other bigger earthquakes are expected to happen. We are sleeping here, so we can stay safe and quickly run to safety if needed."



"What if an earthquake comes again and we don't have the chance to run, we will be buried alive. Me and my family haven't gone back to the room since the earthquake (happened) this afternoon. We are too scared."



The Nepalese government has declared a state of emergency.



Rescue operations are still underway.



The 8.1-magnitude tremor jolted areas in central Nepal between the capital, Kathmandu and the city of Pokhara.



With Internet and cellphone communications disrupted and transportation infrastructure damaged, little information has been emerged from the epicenter.



Li Ji, a Chinese tourist in Pokhara, describes what she has experienced at the time of the quake.



"A lot of people rushed out to the road when we were driving a car to a mountain this morning. Our first reaction was a fire may have broken out. After being stopped by the crowd, we felt our car shaking dramatically and saw the surround buildings shaking and heard the glass itself making noise. The quake lasted about one and half minutes."



The quake also caused casualties in India, Bangladesh and China's Tibet Autonomous Region.



It also triggered avalanches in Mount Qomolangma, also known as the Mount Everest.



Chinese Everest climber Xue Wei tells about how his team survived from the avalanche.



"Rolling and crawling, we came back. We were scared. We rushed down from the mountain at the height of about 7000 meters. Blocks of cracked ice rolled down in our direction but suddenly turned right and fell into an ice crack. It was very dangerous. I am safe now at a camp at the height of 6500 meters.



A tourism official from Napal earlier said at least eight people were killed when an avalanche swept through a base camp.



Media reports suggest there may have been up to 1000 climbers in the mountain area at that time.



Many of them have still lost contact, including a group of 30 Chinese climbers.



Saturday's earthquake is said to be the most severe one on the continent over the past 8 decades.



Sun Shihong, a researcher with China Earth Quake Network Center, warns of further geological damage in the region.



"We think the quake movements are very active since Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 as the Qinghai Tibet plate has been affected by the Indian Plate. An 8.0- magnitude earth quake happened in Wenhcuan on May 12, 2008, and a 7.7 ¨C magnitude earth quake jolted the border region between Iran and Pakistan on April 16, 2013. It's 8.1 magnitudes this time. All reached 8 magnitudes. That shows the region is in active quake phase and may last for a period. We should pay enough attention to that."

Related:

180 Bodies Retrieved from Collapsed Tower in Kathmantu

Buildings Collapse, Casualties Occur after Strong Quake in Nepal

Second Strong Quake Strikes Nepal: CENC

Earthquake in Nepal Triggers Avalanches in Mount Qomolangma Region

Nepal's 8.1-Magnitude Earthquake Felt in Tibet

Quake Hits N.E. India, Strong Tremors Felt across Country

A Dozen Feared Killed after Quake Topples Landmark Tower in Nepal

Kathmandu Airport Closed after Strong Quake, All Flights Canceled

Two Killed, Over 100 Injured in Bangladesh after Strong Quake
</text>