<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/474043/state-tourists-likely-return-soon.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
State tourists likely to return soon
</headline>

<text>
State tourists likely to return soon

Bengaluru, April 27, 2015, DHNS 0:33 IST

Travellers from Ballari, Vijayapura, Belagavi safe

Most of the tourists from the State to north India and Nepal, which are affected by the earthquake, are reported to be safe. While some are waiting for arrangements to leave for home from Nepal, others have already entered India and are expected to reach the State soon.



A family of seven members from Davangere who were on tour in Nepal are safe and are expected to return soon.



Susheelamma (52), an LIC employee and resident of DCM Township and her relatives from Bengaluru - Parimala, Raghavendra, Srikantha, Sowmya and their children - left for the tour on April 22.



The family members of Susheelamma were worried about their safety after they got to know about the tragedy from news channels.



Narahari, brother of Susheelamma, told Deccan Herald that all his family members were safe and had been accommodated at a hotel at Pokhara in Nepal.



Susheelamma who contacted Narahari on phone told him that they were safe. She is in touch with Karnataka Bhavan officers in New Delhi.



All 120 people who had gone on a tour arranged by the Merchants Club in Arasikere of Hassan district to North India and Nepal are safe, said APMC member Dummenahalli Gangadhar and Haranahalli Mahadevappa, who are part of the team.



Speaking to Deccan Herald over phone, he said all the travellers who had gone in two buses were now in Varanasi.



“Had everything gone according to plan, we would have reached Kathmandu on Saturday morning. But as there were a few changes in Friday’s itinerary, we reached Nepal by 2.30 pm. We came to know about the earthquake when we reached there and decided to return,” he said.



Ballari tourists escape

A total of 52 people from Ballari, Kampli and Hagaribommanahalli are among lucky tourists to have escaped the fury of the quake. T Thimmarao, a tea shop owner from Mariyammanahalli in Hospet taluk of Ballari district, told Deccan Herald over phone that they had already left the Himalayan country and were put up at a choultry in Ayodhya, when the earthquake struck Nepal. Tremors were felt in Ayodhya too and they all ran out of the choultry.



Safe in Gorakhpur

Eleven people from Vijayapura who were stranded in Kathmandu are said to have reached Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh by road. They are expected to arrive in Vijayapura by train on Wednesday.



Suresh Reddy, brother of Shankaralinga Reddy, who is among those from Vijayapura stranded in Nepal, said all the 11 people were safe and accessible through phone.



20 from Mysuru secure

While a group of 20 tourists from Mysuru on North India tour are reported safe, another group of four tourists from the city have remained incommunicado after the earthquake.

The 20-member group from Bogadi, Paduvarahalli and other localities reached Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. On Saturday, they had left Kathmandu much before the catastrophe struck Nepal. They are expected to arrive in the city on April 30.



Kamalamma, a relative of the four inaccessible tourists, contacted the district control room at the DC’s office in Mysuru on Sunday morning and informed that her relatives were incommunicado in Kathmandu.



According to Kamalamma, Anand and three others had gone on the tour on April 14. They visited Pashupathinath temple near Kathmandu. Anand had contacted his family on Saturday evening and informed about their safety. They were 10 km away from Kathmandu at that time. However, they are not available on phone since then.

Meanwhile, some members of a 33-member group from Pandavapura taluk in Mandya district called up their relatives and informed that they were safe and would return soon.

Belagavi group



The 36-member group from Belagavi who were on pilgrimage to north India and Nepal and who were affected by the earthquake returned safely to Varanasi on Sunday.

The team was stuck in Pokhara, 150 km from Kathmandu, when the earthquake struck but were not affected.



Basavaraj Sammatshetty, his wife Sarika, their son Abhinav, Suryakant Dambal, his wife Pushpavati from Chikodi, Mahaveer Shetty, Sheetal Kirti, Priya Kirti of Raibagh are part of the 36-member team.



Their relatives said that the team would board a plane to Hyderabad in Varanasi on Monday. The team is expected to reach Belagavi on Tuesday afternoon.


</text>