<url>
http://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/nepal-earthquake-dozens-of-british-travellers-feared-dead-as-death-toll-reaches-1800-10204472.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: dozens of British travellers feared dead as death toll reaches 2300
</headline>

<text>
Dozens of British travellers are feared dead after a huge earthquake hit Nepal as the death toll from the disaster rose to 2,300.

Families of up to 50 missing Britons were today desperately awaiting news of their loved ones as rescuers cleared rubble in search of survivors, the MailOnline reported.

The magnitude 7.8 earthquake, which hit towns just outside the capital Kathmandu yesterday, was the worst to hit the poor Himalayan nation in over 80 years.

It destroyed the historic part of the city and was strong enough to be felt across the northern part of neighbouring India, Bangladesh, China's region of Tibet and Pakistan, where a total of 60 people died.

A further 5,000 people are thought to have been injured by the earthquake.

The father of Briton Julia Carroll told The Sunday Telegraph that he had not heard from his 22-year-old daughter since Friday and was nervously waiting to speak to her.

He said: “I spoke to her on the phone on Friday afternoon when she rang home to wish me a happy birthday. We are desperately worried. It’s a tragic situation out there, with so many deaths and so much destruction and we can only hope she is safe and gets in touch.”

The newspaper reported that the friends of a second Briton, Laura Wood from Huddersfield, were also waiting to hear whether she had survived the earthquake.

The 23-year-old was trekking in the Himalayas when the disaster hit, according to reports.

Concerned family members have posted details about their missing loved ones on Google Person Finder in a desperate bid to trace them.

The family of 22-year-old Sebastian Lovera from Kent were among those to appeal for help.

An online advert from a relative reads: "Please contact us with any information about Sebastian Lovera's wellbeing or whereabouts. He has dark blonde/light brown hair, 5 foot 8 ish, very fit. He was wearing a red Black Diamond down jacket, brown Karrimore walking boots with hole in left foot."

Among the dead in Nepal are at least 17 climbers who were struck by a quake-triggered avalanche on Mount Everest that buried part of the base camp packed with foreigners at the end of the climbing season.

Google executive Dan Fredinburg was among the dead climbers, it was confirmed.

Sharing a picture of him on Instagram, his sister Megan wrote: "I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it.

"We appreciate all of the love that has been sent our way thus far and know his soul and his spirit will live on in so many of us. All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you."

Last night tens of thousands of traumatised people were said to have been jolted awake by strong aftershocks from the earthquake.

"There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried," said witness Sundar Sah. "I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive."

When the earth first shook, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls.

After yesterday's chaos - when little organised rescue and relief was seen - there was slightly more order as rescue teams fanned out across the city.

Most areas were without power and water, but with Kathamandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. He said schools had been turned into shelters.

Roads to Gorkha district, the site of the epicentre, were blocked by landslides, hindering rescue teams, chief district official Prakash Subedi said. Teams were trekking on foot through mountain trails to reach remote villages, and helicopters would also be deployed, he said.

Mukesh Kafle, head of Nepal Electricity Authority, said power had been restored to the main government office, the airport and hospitals. But the damage to the electricity cables and poles was making it difficult to restore power across many parts of the country.

"We have to make sure all cables are secure before turning the power on. Our technicians have been working round the clock to restore power to the people," he said.

The quake will put a huge strain on the resources of Nepal, best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of the nation of 27.8 million people relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

The world reacted with alacrity to the disaster, offering aid in the form of money, relief material, equipment, expertise and rescue teams.

Indian air force planes landed with 43 tons of relief material, including tents and food, and nearly 200 rescuers. The planes were returning to New Delhi with Indian nationals who were stranded in Kathmandu. More aid flights are planned.

Hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley were overcrowded, running out of room for storing dead bodies and running out of emergency supplies, the United Nations said.

Additional reporting by the Press Association
</text>