<url>
http://www.theherald.com.au/story/3037868/nepal-aftershocks-continue-as-thousands-die-in-tremor/?cs=305
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
NEPAL: Aftershocks continue as thousands die in tremor
</headline>

<text>
KATHMANDU, NEPAL - APRIL 25: A collapsed temple in the centre of Kathmandu. (Photo by Omar Havana/Getty Images)

BURIED beneath the rubble were so many bodies, thousands left trapped, bloodied or dead by tremors that brought down buildings and split paved streets in two. Rescuers dug with hacksaws, mangled metal bars and their own hands in the cold dirt, in a race to find survivors.

The earthquake tore through large stretches of Nepal, toppling towers in Kathmandu and entombing climbers on Mount Everest under tonnes of rock, ice and snow. Officials warned the death toll could reach 10,000 as the full extent of the devastation became known.

Aftershocks continued to rock the impoverished nation, including one with a magnitude of 6.7 on Sunday night.

Among the dead were dozens of bodies pulled from the debris of the historic Dharara Tower, its nine storeys reduced to a jagged, 10-metre stump. Many more were engulfed by an avalanche that thundered down Everest towards at least 1200 people at base camp. "What a hell," wrote one.

Newcastle Herald journalist Peta Doherty was in Nepal on a trek when the devastating earthquake hit the country.

A family spokeswoman said she had been on the trek with her sister.

The pair were four days into a seven-day trek when the quake hit, she said.

"They were heading towards Briddhim [Saturday].

"All we know so far is we had a text that they were in the affected area, but they were safe and they were going to try to make their way to Kathmandu [Sunday]."

The family had heard no more since then, but communications in the country had been disrupted.

More than 300 Australians were among those missing on Sunday, as the official toll of those killed by the 7.8 magnitude earthquake passed 2000.

Three Newcastle men who had been reported as unaccounted for on the Red Cross list were safe, according to friends.

Liam Buxton, Peter Cossar and Nick McLennan were believed to be at the Mt Everest base camp when the earthquake hit. But those close to the trio told friends on Facebook that their trekking company had been in touch with families to tell them they were safe after the initial quake.

It was understood the families' relatives had still not spoken directly to them on Sunday afternoon.

Many larger buildings, including hospitals and retirement homes, remained unstable. Access to food and water was also causing concern. Rubble and landslides prevented access to many villages to provide aid.

Left, bystanders examine cracks in the road.

"It's now a race against time to rescue those trapped under rubble, help the injured and support the survivors," said the Red Cross' head of international programs, Peter Walton.

The earthquake struck shortly before noon on Saturday, thundering for up to two minutes and throwing up clouds of dust as buildings collapsed in Kathmandu's historic centre.

At least 17 people were killed on Mt Everest, where Dutch mountaineer Eric Arnold said the impact "was like a freight train".

Seismologists have long warned of a major earthquake in western Nepal, where there is pent-up pressure from grinding tectonic plates. But the initial rescue effort was chaotic, with emergency workers and volunteers using tools and bulldozers to dig in the rubble.

Hospitals across the nation of 28 million people struggled to cope with its worst earthquake in 80 years.

Thousands sheltered under tents and tarpaulins on the streets of Kathmandu, fearful of fragile buildings made from unreinforced brick or crushed stone.

The epicentre of the quake was 80 kilometres west of Kathmandu. But its force was felt beyond Nepal, with at least 60 people reported dead in India, five in Tibet and four in Bangladesh.

The Australian government said it had sent a crisis response team to Nepal to confirm the safety of those Australians who had not been accounted for.

An initial $5 million in assistance would also be offered to Nepal, said foreign minister Julie Bishop.
</text>