<url>
http://www.mumbaimirror.com/mumbai/cover-story/Our-hotel-cracked-through-the-middle/articleshow/47054340.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
‘Our hotel cracked through the middle’
</headline>

<text>
Juhu couple Sahil Mane and Tara Kaushal landed in Kathmandu last Monday on a two-week vacation. Sahil, a photographer, and Tara, a media consultant, hadn't had a holiday in two years, and selected Nepal for an adrenalin rush, complete with treks and bike rides. Yesterday, 11.56 am Nepal time, they literally saw the world crumble in front of them.As the earthquake of a 7.9 magnitude hit Nepal - its worst in 80 years - Tara and Sahil were getting a tattoo done at Hotel Yak and Yeti, in the capital Kathmandu. First the lights went off, then came the tremors, and the reality hit them when they saw a man jumping from a window of a building opposite. That's when they realised it was serious trouble."It was crazy, the ground was shaking and the buildings were crumbling to dust in front of our eyes," Sahil said. "We rushed out and saw a man jumping from a building. We saw a huge crack in the middle of our hotel building. It had cracked from the middle. Several people were buried under the debris within minutes."The couple, like hundreds of thousands of people trapped in Kathmandu, have taken refuge in a park. No-one dares to venture indoors as there are warnings of more tremors. "We were attending a tattoo convention with more than 70 artists from all over the world when the chandeliers hanging from the roof began swinging wildly. "The hotels are shut, and people have lined the streets, parks, everywhere," Sahil said.The Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu was indefinitely shut on Saturday. However, by evening yesterday, the airlines announced the resumption of flights to Nepal from Sunday. A few airlines, such as SpiceJet, have been asked to keep aircraft ready to lift supplies and bring back stranded passengers.Around 60 people from Maharashtra are believed to be stranded in Nepal. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis has directed state officials to keep in touch with them and assured all possible help, and a rescue team of 22 members from the Mumbai Fire Brigade are expected to fly to the Himalayan country."I have instructed the state officials to be in touch with tourists from Maharashtra in Nepal and to give all the support and help to them," Fadnavis tweeted.The Juhu couple said they were looking forward to get out of Nepal as soon as possible, as even water was scarce. Thousands of tourists have been stranded without food and water, the couple said, adding the people had pitched tents at the parks."As soon as we realised there was an earthquake, we started looking for water. Everything has been shut. As we walked the narrows streets, which resemble the by-lanes of Bandra, walls around us were collapsing. There are people from all over the world who are stranded. We are lucky that we had come prepared for the music festival, and carried tents, sleeping bags and sweaters," Sahil said.
</text>