<url>
http://www.deccanherald.com/content/474011/kasargod-doctor-goes-missing-quake.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Kasargod doctor goes missing in quake-hit Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Kasargod doctor goes missing in quake-hit Nepal

Kasargod/Ullal, Apr 26, 2015, DHNS: 23:46 IST

A doctor from Kasargod district who had visited Kathmandu along with his two friends has gone missing after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal.



Dr Irshad, son of A N Shamshuddin had obtained MD seat in Assam. After completing the admission formalities, he along with his two friends left for Nepal on Friday. In fact, Irshad was engaged to daughter of Muslim League leader T A Khalid and marriage was scheduled to be held in the month of July.



He had spoken to his fiancee Dr Fathima after reaching Kathmandu. After the earthquake, he is not reachable. “We were able to reach out to his friends Dr Deepak Thomas and Abin Soori after several hours,” said family members.



Soori had said that he was in the balcony of the hotel where they were residing and Dr Deepak and Dr Irshad were in the room when the earthquake struck. However, hotel owners said that out of 50 guests in the hotel, only Soori has been injured and was recuperating.



On the other hand, five persons from Nepal who have been working in Thokkottu and Mangaluru as labourers are worried over their families who are in distress after the tremors. “We are not able to contact our family members,” they said. Two persons who are working in Mangaluru said that their houses had collapsed and their family members had come to the streets.



Narayana, 50, who is working in a hotel in Thokkottu said “hearing the news of earthquake in Nepal, I was scared. I tried calling my family members but they were not reachable. The family members called me in the night and said that three of our relatives’ houses had collapsed and fields damaged. Cattle have also perished. Though the family members are safe, my elder bother is injured. They have asked me to rush back home. However, we do not have proper connectivity. I don’t have enough money and have asked the owner, who in turn has promised to pay. I am hopeful of leaving by train on Monday. We will go to Gorakhpur by train and later travel by bus to Nepal.”



Mahesh another labourer said “I have lost my sister and her two sons. I have lost my house as well. I do not know what to do if I go back.” His friend Gopi Guzel said “my two brothers are working in Mangaluru for the last six years. We have been maintaining our families back in our native by earning here. Our houses have collapsed. We do not know what to do?” Nine tourists from Dakshina Kannada, who had been to Pokhara in Nepal are safe. According to the travel agency which had arranged the tour, the tourists will reach Delhi within two days.
</text>