<url>
http://www.stuff.co.nz/world/asia/68055941/nations-aid-groups-pledge-support-for-nepal
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nations, aid groups pledge support for Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Nations, aid groups pledge support for Nepal

Peter Drury Peter Drury Mike Scott Peter Drury NAVESH CHITRAKAR NAVESH CHITRAKAR Omar Havana Mike Scott/Fairfax NZ Reuters Reuters Omar Havana Peter Drury/Fairfax NZ Peter Drury/Fairfax NZ Mike Scott/Fairfax NZ Reuters Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters Reuters Niranjan Shrestha/AP Niranjan Shrestha/AP Niranjan Shrestha/AP Zhou Shengping/Xinhua News Agency Zhou Shengping/Xinhua News Agency Dhany Osman/Handout via Reuters Dhany Osman/Handout via Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Navesh Chitrakar/Reuters Fallen buildings on the outskirts of Kathmandu after Saturday's devastating quake. A boy cries amidst the devastation in Kathmandu. An injured man walks down a road in Kathmandu. Soldiers pick through rubble in Kathmandu as the search for survivors goes on. People cremate the bodies of the victims of the Nepal earthquake. Stranded tourists gather in front of a ticket office after their flights were cancelled a day after the quake. A taxi is buried under debris from a collapsed building in Thamel. A collapsed building in Kathmandu following the earthquake. A collapsed building in Kathmandu, where more than 300 were killed. A digger clears debris from a collapsed building in Kathmandu. Emergency rescue workers find a survivor in the debris of Dharara tower after it collapsed in Kathmandu. A bloodied monk is carried to safety by rescue workers and members of the public. Thousands panic in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake in Kathmandu. Thousands of people crowd an intersection as aftershocks hit Kathmandu. The body of a victim is carried out on a stretcher from a collapsed building. A collapsed building in Kathmandu. People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal. The body of a victim is carried from the rubble. People sit with their belongings outside a damaged temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square. People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake hit Kathmandu. People work to rescue trapped people inside a temple in Bashantapur Durbar Square after an earthquake in Kathmandu. People survey a site damaged by an earthquake in Kathmandu. A car is seen next to a collapsed house in Tibet, one of the many surrounding areas affected by the magnitude 7.8 earthquake that struck Nepal. Rescuers help injured residents to get to safe area in Xigaze Prefecture, Tibet, after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit Nepal. An Indian security personnel stands near a collapsed house in Siliguri, India, caused by the 7.8 magnitude that struck Nepal and parts of northern India. An injured boy is taken to hospital in Siliguri, India, after a massive earthquake struck Nepal, affecting all the nations surrounding it. A man walks past damage caused by the powerful 7.8 magnitude earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. Injured people receive treatment outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal. An injured man receives treatment outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal. A collapsed building is seen in Nepal's capital Kathmandu after a powerful 7.8 magnitude struck. A strong earthquake has hit Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley causing extensive damage. People stand on the runway outside the Tribhuvan International Airport, in Kathmandu, Nepal, after a massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck the region. People stand on the runway outside the International Terminal after the earthquake hit in Kathmandu, Nepal. People wait at a school after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal. People wait at a school after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake struck, in Kathmandu, Nepal. 1 of 35 « Previous « Previous Next » Next »

World leaders and global charities offered condolences and emergency aid to Nepal following the earthquake Saturday while grappling to understand the scope of the disaster.

With Internet and cellphone communications spotty, and many roads closed due to damage, the outside world does not yet have a clear picture of what is most needed following the earthquake that authorities say has killed at least 1300 people.

But it is clear that help is needed - and fast.

Peter Drury/Fairfax NZ A bloodied monk is carried to safety by rescue workers and earthquake survivors.

"We are treating it as a big emergency," said Ben Pickering, Save the Children's humanitarian adviser in Britain. "We know the damage is extensive and that access into rural areas will be very, very difficult for everybody."

Pickering said it is too early for a detailed assessment but that the overall picture is grim.

"Children will be affected in many ways. Physical injuries. Separated from families," he said. "The priority now is understanding the scale, what the emergency needs are right now and in the coming weeks."

Mike Scott/Fairfax NZ A collapsed building in Kathmandu following the 7.8-magnitude earthquake.

Some charities are assembling disaster teams - based on the assumption that sanitation, shelter and medical help are urgently required - but the most convenient pathway into Nepal is not available because the international airport in Kathmandu has been shut down by the quake.

Pickering said Save the Children plans to send a specialist team as soon as possible to help with food, water and sanitation in the country, which is one of the world's poorest.

The European Union is considering "some budget support" to Nepal, according to a joint statement on Saturday by the EU's foreign policy chief, development chief and humanitarian chief. It did not provide details or amounts.

Reuters A collapsed building in Kathmandu, where more than 300 were killed.

They said the EU is also looking into "how we can help Nepal to deal with the destroyed and damaged buildings and how to help its citizens."

"The full extent of the casualties and damage is still unknown but reports indicate they will likely be high, both in terms of loss of life, injuries and damage to cultural heritage," they said.

British Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other leaders also promised help for Nepal. Cameron said on Twitter that Britain "will do all we can to help those caught up in it."

Reuters The body of a victim is carried out on a stretcher from a collapsed building.

Cameron and Merkel did not specify what aid would be forthcoming, but others were more specific. Norwegian Foreign Minister Boerge Brende said the Scandinavian country would allocate 30 million kroner (NZ$5.07 million) to aid work, and that the money would be sent through the United Nations and charitable organisations.

"We are following the situation closely and we will find out whether to contribute further when we know more," Brende said in a statement.

Italy's Foreign Ministry said it has made available €300,000 (NZ$429,000) of emergency aid for earthquake victims. The aid will be channeled through the International Red Cross.

French President Francois Hollande said France is "ready to respond to requests for help and assistance" from Nepalese authorities.

French aid group Doctors of the World (Medecins du monde) said it has mobilised its workers in Nepal - based in Kathmandu and Chautara to work on maternal and infant health - to help quake victims. It is sending more staffers and medical aid to the region immediately.

Among other countries sending condolences was Mexico, which suffered an 8.1-magnitude earthquake that killed an estimated 9500 people in the nation's capital in 1985. Mexico's foreign ministry said it stood in solidarity with the government of Nepal and the relatives of the earthquake victims.

NEPAL EARTHQUAKE - THINGS TO KNOW

A powerful earthquake struck the Nepal region on Saturday, causing widespread casualties and triggering an avalanche on Mount Everest.

HOW BAD IS THE DAMAGE?

It's too early to tell, but early indications suggest the early figure of 1300 people killed in four countries is likely to rise substantially in the coming days. The magnitude-7.8 quake was the worst to hit Nepal in eight decades and caused damage and fatalities in neighboring countries as well. In addition to at least 1130 people killed in Nepal, at least 34 were killed in India, 12 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died at the Nepal-China border.

The earthquake hit a heavily populated area of Nepal, including the capital, Kathmandu, and its impact spread far beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Strong aftershocks were felt an hour after the initial temblor.

Earthquake experts are preparing for high numbers in terms of deaths and damage.

"This is a very large earthquake in a significantly populated region with infrastructure that has been damaged in past earthquakes," U.S. Geological Survey seismologist Paul Earle said. "Significant fatalities are expected."

Local hospitals were already filling with injured residents, and Kathmandu's international airport was shut down, hampering initial relief efforts in the isolated mountainous country.

WHAT HAPPENED? AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?

Seismologist Earle said the quake happened on what is known as a "thrust fault." That describes the situation when one piece of the Earth's crust is moving beneath another piece.

In this case, it's the Indian plate that is moving north at 45 millimetres (1.7 inches) a year under the Eurasian plate to the north, Earle said. It's a different type of earthquake than the one that caused the 1906 San Francisco earthquake.

"This is what builds the Himalayan mountain range," Earle said.

The region and particular fault has a history of damaging earthquakes, including four temblors with magnitudes greater than 6.0 in the past 100 years, Earle said, warning that landslides are a particular worry now, given the steep slopes in the region.

WHAT DOES 'RED ALERT' ISSUED BY US OFFICIALS MEAN?

The US Geological Survey said the earthquake was strong enough to merit a "red alert" for shaking-related fatalities and economic losses. It said that "high casualties and extensive damage are probable and the disaster is likely widespread. Past red alerts have required a national or international response."

Quick USGS calculations estimate a two-thirds likelihood of between 1000 and 100,000 fatalities and damage between US$100 million and US$10 billion. Scientists estimate that more than 105 million people felt at least moderate shaking during the quake.

WHAT HAPPENED ON MOUNT EVEREST?

A devastating avalanche swept across Mount Everest after the earthquake, claiming at least eight lives with an unspecified number of people missing and injured.

The avalanche struck near one of the famed mountain's most dangerous spots. It swept down between the Khumbu Icefall, known for its harsh conditions, and the base camp used by international climbing expeditions.

There were unverified reports of avalanches on other parts of the mountain. Nepalese officials said some 30 people were injured at the base camp.

Facebook postings by climbers suggested that some people may have been buried in their tents when the avalanche hit. Climbers and their support teams were leaving the base camp Saturday looking for safer locations.

More than 4000 climbers have scaled the 8850m summit since 1953, when it was first conquered by New Zealand climber Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay.

HOW PREPARED IS NEPAL TO COPE WITH SUCH A CRISIS?

Nepal is a relatively poor country without extensive resources despites its rich cultural heritage and spectacular mountain scenery.

It has been plagued by instability in recent years, and general strikes have recently brought chaotic scenes to Kathmandu.

Nepal's constitution was supposed to have been written by the Constituent Assembly that was elected in 2008, following the end of a 10-year Maoist insurgency and the overthrow of the centuries-old monarchy, but the assembly was hampered by infighting and never finished its work.

The current assembly was chosen in 2013, but has faced the same problem.

Neighbouring Pakistan has offered help, and an international aid effort is likely to begin once Kathmandu's international airport can be reopened.

- AP
</text>