<url>
http://www.news18.com/news/uttar-pradesh/earthquake-hits-north-india-25-dead-in-bihar-8-in-up-724463.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Earthquake hits North India; 25 dead in Bihar, 8 in UP
</headline>

<text>
The Saturday morning brought along with it a massive tremors lasting for at least 2 minutes claiming many lives in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Massive tremors were felt across North India as an earthquake of magnitude 7.9 struck Nepal.

The quakes also jolted parts of North and Northeast India including Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Mobile network has been affected in the Delhi-NCR region.

Reacting on the tragedy Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "We are working to reach out to those affected, both at home and in Nepal, tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi after quake."

BIHAR

At least 25 people were killed and 133 injured in roof and wall collapse in Bihar after a high intensity earthquake rocked several parts of the country and Nepal on Saturday.

Chief Minister Nitish Kumar told reporters that seven persons died in East Champaran district, while six others lost their lives in Sitamarhi, both sharing borders with Nepal, the epicentre of the quake.

Other deaths have been reported from Darbhanga (3), Madhubani (2), Saran (2), Araria (2) and one each in Sheohar, Supual and West Champaran, he said giving break-up.

Kumar said a total of 133 people have been injured in the quake related event in different parts of Bihar.

29 persons were injured in Darbhanga while in West Champaran 16 persons were injured and Madhubani 10.

Others injured are in Sitamarhi, East Champaran, Sheohar, Supual, Nalanda, Samastipur, Gopalganj, Vaishali and Muzaffarpur, he said.

The Chief Minister announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to families of all the dead in the earthquake.

He also ordered free treatment of injured.

UTTAR PRADESH

Eight deaths have been reported from Uttar Pradesh till now. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav instructed UP chief secretary Alok Ranjan and DGP AK Jain to take stock of impact of earthquake and report to him.

Meanwhile, UP CM Akhilesh Yadav has increased the earthquake relief to Rs 7 lakh for kin of dead.

Taking precautionary measure, CM announced closure of schools and colleges in the state.

UP government has decided to send relief material in 21 trucks to quake-hit Nepal, comprising 10 trucks mineral water, 10 trucks biscuits and one truck medicines. These trucks will leave on Sunday.

Madhya Pradesh

Mild tremors also experienced in different parts of MP including Bhopal and Jabalpur.

In Madhya Pradesh, the areas which felt tremors included Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Morena, Bhind, Sagar and others.

Madhya Pradesh's Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also came out of Mantralaya after the tremors were felt. He also directed employees and officers to move out of the Mantralaya.

NDRF teams sent to Bihar, UP

Union Home Secretary L C Goyal said that five teams of National Disaster Response Force, comprising 45 personnel each, have been dispatched to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh for conducting rescue and relief operations.

"Our focus is on rescue operations. The damage assessment will follow in some time," he said.

The Home Secretary said the NDRF teams are equipped with life-saving kits, breathing equipment, wood and metal cutters and other essential gadgets and are also accompanied by paramedics and sniffer dogs.

Goyal said that the Bihar government had requested for the NDRF teams and one team each has been sent to Darbhanga, Supaul, Motihari and Gopalganj districts of the state. An NDRF team has also been sent to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, he added.

"I am in constant touch with the Chief Secretaries of the affected states and assured them all possible help," he said. The National Crisis Management Committee, headed by Cabinet Secretary Ajit Seth, has already held a meeting and reviewed the situation. It will meet again soon to take stock of the situation.

NDRF Director General OP Singh said that 10 rescue teams have been flown to Nepal to assist the local authorities there.

According to India Meteorological Department, earthquake of magnitude 7.9 on the Richter scale occurred on Saturday at 11.41 am between latitude 28.1 North and Longitude 84.6 East. The epicentre was located in Nepal.
</text>