<url>
http://www.theyeshivaworld.com/news/headlines-breaking-stories/304022/israeli-search--rescue-teams-heading-to-nepal-.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Israeli Search & Rescue Teams Heading to Nepal
</headline>

<text>




Israeli search and rescue teams are preparing to take off for Nepal to take part in search & rescue and recovery efforts following the devastating earthquake that claimed over 1,800 lives and left over 4,000 injured. State officials announced two planes will be leaving for Nepal today, Sunday, 7 Iyar carrying rescue and medical personnel. A military flight took off on motzei Shabbos to assist rescue efforts.

The Foreign Ministry is arranging for rescue and medical experts to fly to the earthquake-stricken area, working in conjunction with a number of organizations including Magen David Adom, Ichud Hatzalah and Zaka. Those Israelis wanting to leave Nepal will be able to return on those planes.

Channel 2 News reports families are waiting to hear from over 200 Israelis. Among those expected to be rescued are 26 babies born to surrogate Nepalese women and their Israeli parents.

Ichud Hatzalah and Zaka are sending a combined team of search & rescue and medical personnel to take part in ongoing rescue efforts. Zaka will also be assisting in caring for the many fatalities. The teams leaving Israel on Sunday will be establishing a field hospital as Israel has done in disaster-stricken countries around the world in the past.

Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu on motzei Shabbos held a briefing on the earthquake. Mr. Netanyahu Held an update on the situation in Nepal and nearby areas as well as consulting with Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman and Defense Minister Moshe Ya’alon. It was agreed to dispatch – as soon as possible – a rescue delegation including medical elements. The delegation will land near the affected zone and make its preparations until it becomes possible to land in Nepal. Israelis in the affected zone will receive the means necessary to return to Israel. The prime minister conveys his condolences to the people of Nepal and says that Israel will render such assistance as may be required.

The prime minister sent a letter to Nepalese Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, and said that Israel was pained by the disaster that has befallen Nepal. He added that Israel is prepared to aid in rescue efforts and provide medical assistance. The Prime Minister conveyed his condolences to the families of the victims and wished a full recovery to the injured. He declared that the State of Israel and its citizens stood alongside Nepal in this difficult hour.

President Reuven Rivlin told the media “Our thoughts and hearts go out to the people of Nepal dealing with this awful disaster, and with our loved ones who are in distress. The State of Israel is reaching out to help the search and rescue of the many victims.”

Chabad shaliach Rabbi Chezki and Rebitzen Chani Lifshitz in the Katmandu Chabad House told Chabad.org News that they are cooperating with rescue officials to locate the missing and to provide food, s helter and medical care.

Hundreds of Israeli backpackers and tourists took refuge at the Chabad center in Kathmandu. Rebitzen Lifshitz used their Facebook page to get the message out, that many Israelis have taken refuge in the center, which was slightly damaged by the quake. Thousands of Israeli backpackers and foreign tourists, many of them in their 20s, pass through Nepal and the Chabad House annually. The Lifshitzs are working to gather the names of Israelis, to inform Israel Foreign Ministry officials in Nepal.

It is pointed out that some of the Israelis in the Chabad House are IDF medics and they are using their skills to assist in treating the injured.

(YWN – Israel Desk, Jerusalem)




</text>