<url>
http://www.enca.com/south-africa/sa-schoolgirls-among-nepal-quake-survivors
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
SA schoolgirls among Nepal quake survivors
</headline>

<text>
25 April 2015 – Earlier, eNCA Asia correspondent, John Bailey, gave us an update on the Nepal earthquake. Video: eNCA

JOHANNESBURG - Eight Pretoria schoolgirls who had been visiting Nepal when the 7.9 magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday, are safe.

The group from St Mary's Diocesan School for Girls had been on the World Challenge Team visit in that country.

On Friday morning, the day before the quake, photographs showed them enjoying ''The Beautiful Himalayas''.

Later an update asking for prayers of their safety followed, but according to News24, a latter update sent information of their safety.

It is not clear how many other South Africans were visiting the country when disaster struck but according to the Department of International Relations, they had all been accounted for.

A Cape Town company specialising in expeditions in the region when the quake and avalanche struck, said it had managed to locate its team, led by South African Ronnie Muhl.

The Department of International Relations and co-operation spokesperson Clayson Monyela said President Jacob Zuma had also sent a message of condolences to Nepal.

''The president issued a message of condolences to the government and people of Nepal following this devastating earthquake which has claimed hundreds and hundreds of lives," said Monyela.

Gift of the Givers joining rescue efforts

South African humanitarian group Gift of the Givers was scrambling to send 20 search and rescue volunteers as well as 20 medical trauma specialists to Nepal to help.

''The devastating earthquake in Nepal necessitates a worldwide response given the magnitude of the destruction and the large loss of life in this poor Himalayan country,'' said Gift of the Givers head Imtiaz Sooliman.

They will leave as soon as their visa and other logistics are finalised and will take R5m worth of search and rescue and medical equipment, and medical supplies on the mission.

''Tents, food, bottled water and other essential supplies for affected victims will be purchased from India,'' he said.

Search and rescue and medical personnel can forward their names and speciality to sooliman@giftofthegivers.org in case they send more volunteers.

The 7.9 magnitude earthquake ripped through large parts of Nepal, setting off an avalanche at Mount Everest and its base camp, where climbers and support teams set up camp.

The epicentre was believed to be about 80km outside Kathmandu, according to the Associated Press.

Latest reports put the death toll over 1,800.

Concerned families and friends have been advised to contact Dirco on 011-351-1000.

Tweets about #earthquake #nepal

-News24
</text>