<url>
http://www.afr.com/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-death-toll-rises-past-1300-as-us-and-britain-offer-help-20150426-1mtab0
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Death toll rises past 1300 as US and Britain offer help
</headline>

<text>
Nepal is urging countries to send aid to help it cope with the aftermath of a devastating earthquake that killed more than 1300 people, a toll officials said would rise as the desperate search for survivors continued into the early hours of Sunday. As fears of a humanitarian disaster grew, thousands of people braved freezing temperatures to sleep on pavements, in parks or in fields, too afraid to return to homes damaged by a 7.9 magnitude quake, which struck at midday on Saturday. "We have launched a massive rescue and rehabilitation action plan and lots needs to be done," said Information and Broadcasting Minister Minendra Rijal. "Our country is in a moment of crisis and we will require tremendous support and aid," he told Indian television.

People wait at a school after the earthquake in Nepal. Reuters

The home ministry said the death toll had reached 1,382. A police spokesman said more than 630 of them were killed in Kathmandu Valley and at least 300 more in the capital.

Foreign climbers and their Nepalese guides around Mount Everest were caught by the tremors and a huge avalanche. Some took to social media to send desperate messages for assistance, warning that otherwise more people would die. Hospitals across the impoverished nation of 28 million people struggled to cope with the dead and injured from Nepal's worst quake in 81 years, and a lack of equipment meant rescuers could look no deeper than surface rubble for signs of life. Ramesh Pokharel, a staff member of the Bhaktapur Hospital on the outskirts of Kathmandu, said that around 50 bodies were lying in a field outside. Doctors were treating patients in a makeshift tent next to the main building, and staff were too busy to count or register names of the casualties.

People survey a site damaged by an earthquake, in Kathmandu, Nepal. Reuters

"It's chaos here," Pokharel said. People still trapped The earthquake, centred 50 miles (80 km) east of the second city, Pokhara, was all the more destructive for being shallow. Areas of Kathmandu were reduced to rubble, and rescue operations had still not begun in some remote areas.

Rescuers look for victims under a collapsed building in Kathmandu AP

Among the capital's landmarks destroyed in the earthquake was the 60-metre-high (100-foot) Dharahara Tower, built in 1832 for the queen of Nepal, with a viewing balcony that had been open to visitors for the last 10 years. A jagged stump 10 metres high was all that was left of the lighthouse-like structure. As bodies were pulled from the ruins, a policeman said up to 200 people had been trapped inside. Across the city, rescuers scrabbled through the rubble of destroyed buildings, among them ancient, wooden Hindu temples. "I can see three bodies of monks trapped in the debris of a collapsed building near a monastery," Indian tourist Devyani Pant told Reuters. "We are trying to pull the bodies out and look for anyone who is trapped."

Rescuers clear the debris at Durbar Sqaure after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal. AP

Neighbouring India, where 44 people were reported killed in the quake and its aftershocks, was first to respond to calls for help, sending military aircraft with medical equipment and relief teams. The Indian embassy in Nepal said 285 members of the National Disaster Response Force had been sent to assist the Nepalese army in the rescue effort. Aid groups readied staff to go to Nepal with supplies to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food, while the United States, Britain and Pakistan were among countries providing search-and-rescue experts. Tragedy in the mountains
</text>