<url>
http://www.dailycamera.com/top-stories/ci_27989576/quake-shocks-ripple-through-nepalese-community-boulder
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Quake shocks ripple through Nepalese community in Boulder
</headline>

<text>
'The whole thing looks like smoke and dust'

Ratna Shrestha has been crying since she woke up Saturday morning to news of the loss, in a magnitude 7.8 earthquake, of an immeasurable number of roads, buildings and people she grew up with in Nepal.

"It's very difficult right now," said Shrestha, who owns the Boulder restaurant Nepal Cuisine. "It's so scary. When I talked to my sister this morning she said she counted 28 aftershocks. No one can get an ambulance. It's a very bad situation."

Nepalese police officials estimate the quake, which struck the Himalayan nation around noon local time, has claimed at least 1,800 lives, but that total is certain to climb as tallies are taken throughout the Kathmandu Valley and in remote areas of the country.

Members of the military transport an earthquake victim in Nepal. (Narayan Shrestha / Courtesy photo)

There is a sizeable contingent of Nepalese people in the Boulder area, and the city of Boulder is home to many restaurants serving the country's cuisine, as well as vendors of Nepalese and Tibetan goods, which line downtown Pearl Street.

The Rocky Mountain Friends of Nepal released a statement encouraging donations to a relief fund.

"This tragic moment lived in Colorado," the statement read.

The Dharahara Tower, built in 1832, was the most notable structural loss among a slew of destroyed monuments and historical pieces. Thousands of homes, hospitals and schools — many with concrete and brick foundations — are now piles of rubble.

Advertisement

Of the destruction of the Dharahara, Erie resident Milat Sharma, who lived in Nepal until he was 19, said, "It'd be like not having the Statue of Liberty anymore."

"This was a building that every Nepalese can associate with," Sharma added. "It's one of those monuments that everybody knew. ... I hope the history of our country is not measured in monuments, but these old buildings are part of a heritage that doesn't exist anymore. For the younger generation, you're talking about fairytales now."

'Everything that I could recognize has been destroyed'

Himalayan peaks, including Mount Everest, northeast of Kathmandu, were said to have experienced numerous avalanches, killing an unknown number of hikers. A group of Colorado climbers at Everest reported via Twitter that they are safe, but that the mountain is "a very dangerous place" right now, "with blocks of ice the size of houses" burying parts of the climbing route.

Matt Moniz, a Boulder teen and mountaineer who has been posting from the Everest base camp on Twitter, said his team is safe and aiding in rescue efforts.

Sreejana Shrestha, owner of the Old Tibet Shop in Boulder, talks to concerned people who have questions about what effects the recent earthquake had in Nepal. Her family is in Kathmandu and they are safe but forced to leave their homes because of earthquake damage. (Cliff Grassmick / Staff Photographer)

"Situation at EBC is critical," he tweeted. "Several head injuries need evac (sic) ASAP. Praying world help 4 Nepal is en route."

"It's so heartbreaking," said Nichal Dangol, an information technology developer at the University of Colorado. "Everything that I grew up knowing — all the monuments, all the roads — they're gone. All gone. Everything that I could recognize has been destroyed. Houses within a two- or five-minute walk from my house, they're destroyed."

Some of Dangol's family and friends have taken refuge together indoors, but others he knows are scared to stay in buildings that could be vulnerable to aftershocks, at least a dozen of which have been officially reported since the initial temblor.

"Some of my friends are too scared to stay at their houses, so they're living in their cars, camping in the backyard or in nearby parks. It's been aftershock upon aftershock. People are just too scared to even go inside the house. They haven't been able to get rest or go to sleep."

Narayan Shrestha, founder of the Boulder non-profit Helping Hands, travelled to his native Nepal two days ago after leading a group of doctors on a tour of Bhutan. He said via Facetime that he is safe in Bhaktapur, a Kathmandu Valley city about seven miles from the capital, but that he has "never seen such devastation."

"Three minutes after it first hit, I looked down into Bhaktapur, and the whole thing looks like smoke and dust," he said. "Hundreds of houses collapsed. The roads are cracked and broken. Even the recently built roads are in many pieces.

"We are hearing there are 1,500 dead just in the valley, but we don't even know the other reports. Every minute it feels like the number is escalating."

Doctors, and cadaver dogs, heading to Nepal

Shrestha's non-profit has worked since 1992 to bring quality, low-cost medical care to rural areas of Nepal, and Saturday he enlisted a number of doctors from New Mexico to meet him in Kathmandu for relief work. Those doctors will bring with them three cadaver dogs, Shrestha said.

Punit Dhaubhadel, a Nepalese student who has befriended Shrestha in the aftermath, and whose family owns a hotel in the Kathmandu Valley, said the area surrounding the hotel is a "scene of dead bodies ... without any cover over them."

"I am only 18 years old waiting for my final exam," he wrote in a Facebook message. "I was looking for my future, but looking at this devastation outside in my life it feels like as if it is the end of the world. The oldest monument fell down, the centuries-old palaces collapsed, the pride of the country's many world heritage spots have been destroyed.

"It is very, very difficult to know and gather information of the losses and damages for the government at this time. The estimation of deaths could rise up to 5,000 — that is the prediction.

"What I feel as a young man who is looking for a future is nothing but fear of death. I feel sitting inside a standing building is standing in front of a gun point.

"It is not fair. I feel angry and frustrated," Dhaubhadel added. "Only God can help us at this point."

Alex Burness: 303-473-1389, burnessa@dailycamera.com or twitter.com/alex_burness
</text>