<url>
http://www.sfchronicle.com/bayarea/article/Google-engineer-dies-in-Everest-avalanche-6224001.php
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Google executive dies in Everest avalanche triggered by Nepal quake
</headline>

<text>
Emergency workers and bystanders clear debris while searching for survivors under a collapsed temple in Basantapur Durbar Square following an earthquake on April 25, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal. A major 7.8 ... more

Emergency workers and bystanders clear debris while searching for survivors under a collapsed temple in Basantapur Durbar Square following an earthquake on April 25, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal. A major 7.8 earthquake hit Kathmandu mid-day on Saturday, and was followed by multiple aftershocks that triggered avalanches on Mt. Everest that buried mountain climbers in their base camps. less

People clear rubble in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by an earthquake on April 25, 2015.

People clear rubble in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by an earthquake on April 25, 2015.

A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by an earthquake on April 25, 2015. A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed ... more

A Nepalese man and woman hold each other in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that was severely damaged by an earthquake on April 25, 2015. A massive 7.8 magnitude earthquake killed hundreds of people April 25 as it ripped through large parts of Nepal, toppling office blocks and towers in Kathmandu and triggering a deadly avalanche that hit Everest base camp. less

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015.

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015.

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four others from the ... more

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four others from the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) all survived the avalanche. (Azim Afif via AP) less

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four others from the ... more

This photo provided by Azim Afif shows the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four others from the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) all survived the avalanche. (Azim Afif via AP) less

Climber Dan Fredinburg, above, an engineer on Google’s privacy team, died after the 7.8- magnitude Nepal quake caused an avalanche on Mount Everest, where survivors surveyed the damage, left.

Climber Dan Fredinburg, above, an engineer on Google’s privacy team, died after the 7.8- magnitude Nepal quake caused an avalanche on Mount Everest, where survivors surveyed the damage, left.

In this photo provided by Azim Afif people approach the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four ... more

In this photo provided by Azim Afif people approach the scene after an avalanche triggered by a massive earthquake swept across Everest Base Camp, Nepal on Saturday, April 25, 2015. Afif and his team of four others from the Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM) all survived the avalanche. (Azim Afif via AP) less

A Google executive climbing Mount Everest died after he sustained a major head injury when his climbing team was caught in an avalanche caused by the powerful 7.8-magnitude earthquake in Nepal that killed scores of people across the country, his family and colleagues said on social media Saturday.

Dan Fredinburg, a San Francisco resident and head of privacy at Google X, died in the avalanche that swept Mount Everest.

“This is Dan’s little sister Megan. I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn't make it,” a message said on Fredinburg’s Instagram account. “All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong willed man. He was and is everything to us. Thank you.”

A photo posted by Dan Fredinburg (@danfredinburg) on Apr 25, 2015 at 11:27am PDT

Google privacy director Lawrence You said Fredinburg was climbing with three other company employees.

“He has passed away. The other three Googlers with him are safe and we are working to get them home quickly,” You said in a statement. “Our thoughts are with the people of Nepal, and with Dan’s family and friends during this terrible time.”

You said Google.org is committing $1 million to earthquake relief efforts. Other colleagues posted on social media as well, saying Fredinburg will “continue to inspire in spirit.”

The expedition company Jagged Globe reported the death on its website, saying Fredinburg, who was reportedly an experienced climber, was one of its Everest team members.

Fredinburg studied at UC Irvine and later Stanford before working for three years as a software engineer at Boeing, according to his profile on Google Plus. In 2007, he began working has head of privacy for Google X, the company’s innovation laboratory, which oversees products like the self-driving car and Google Glass.

He was documenting the Everest climb on social media, posting several images of his trek through Nepal and at base camp to Instagram before Saturday’s powerful quake hit, killing at least 17 other climbers and scores more in and around the country’s capital.

While many in the tech world may shy from the spotlight, Fredinburg was a prominent and recognizable public figure. He dated “Chicago P.D.” star Sophia Bush in 2013 and attended several red carpet events before their 2014 split.

The actress, who attended the White House Correspondents Dinner on Saturday evening, said in a message posted on Instagram that she was “devastated” by Fredinburg’s death.

“Dan Fredinburg was one-of-a-kind. Fearless. Funny. A dancing robot who liked to ride dinosaurs and chase the sun and envision a better future for the world. His brain knew how to build it. ... He was one of the great loves of my life.”

Hamed Aleaziz is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail: haleaziz@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @haleaziz
</text>