<url>
http://www.smh.com.au/national/nepal-earthquake-australians-still-missing-20150426-1mtimf.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Australians still missing
</headline>

<text>
They headed to the region to volunteer, trek in the Himalayas and to take in historic monuments and temples. Now more than 300 Australians are missing in Nepal after the earthquake on Saturday killed thousands of people and left many more injured.

SHARE

Share on Facebook SHARE

Share on Twitter TWEET

Link Following the earthquake on April 25 in Kathmandu, Nepal, family members of missing Australians should contact Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's Consular Emergency Centre. Photo: Getty Images

An expedition leader for the Dreamers' Destination Treks and Expeditions tour company told reporters on Sunday that he had lost four members of his group, including an Australian.

"I have lost four team members in the avalanche – two Nepalis, one Chinese and Australian," said Temba Tsheri Sherpa. "But the situation is so bad, this is only the beginning of bad news."

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link Sydney man, Matthew Graves. Photo: Facebook

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has so far been in contact with more than 200 Australians of 549 registered as travelling in Nepal, but "challenging conditions" have made it difficult to contact others. A website set up by the Red Cross showed 148 Australians had been reported missing by friends or family members since the quake struck, with some marked as 'found' shortly after.

Among the missing is 26-year-old volunteer James Brinson, from Sydney, who worked with World Vision in Dhaka to provide water and sanitation. On April 10 he told a friend he planned to trek in the Himalayas for the next three weeks while he decided what to do when his contract with the aid organisation ended.

Advertisement

The Red Cross Family Links website said the last time he was heard from was on April 20 in the Indian state of Sikkim, which experienced landslides after the quake.

Others unaccounted for were 20-year-old Adelaide man Zachary Sheridan, the younger brother of Packed to the Rafters star Hugh Sheridan, who last contacted his family on April 11 near to Mount Everest, and Chatswood woman Isabel Baudish, 25, who was trekking the Annapurna Circuit with a friend after doing some volunteer work in India.

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link Sydney's Toni Louise Perry. Photo: Facebook

Perth woman Ballantyne Forder, who was working at an orphanage in a suburb of Kathmandu, said she was safe in a post to her Facebook page on Sunday, a relief to her family who feared the worst for several hours after the quake.

On Sunday afternoon, Canberra man William Sargent phoned multiple hotels in Nepal to see if he could find his 19-year-old son Alan, who was in Chitwan National Park, close to the Indian border, when the earthquake struck.

SHARE

Share on Facebook

Share on Twitter

Link Alan Sargent from Canberra. Photo: Facebook

He was optimistic Alan would be found safe and well, because he was in a low-lying area of the country, and his hopes came to fruition in Sunday evening when his son called to let him know he had not been injured in the quake.

Hours before the earthquake, Sydney man Matthew Graves posted photographs of the country's intact, picturesque buildings that would soon be turned to rubble. The 24-year-old's family are anxiously waiting for news he is safe.

The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Julie Bishop, said people concerned about family members in Nepal should try to contact them directly.

Those with missing relatives can call the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade's 24-hour Consular Emergency Centre on (02) 6261 3305.
</text>