<url>
http://www.sbs.com.au/news/storystream/nepal-quake-hundreds-aussies-missing-death-toll-passes-2500
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
UN calls for more Nepal quake aid
</headline>

<text>
The 44-year-old was last seen alive in a remote village on the morning of the disaster. Members of his family had planned to fly to Nepal on Wednesday.

There are grave concerns for Australian Tyronne White who remains missing after the April disaster.

The Department of Foreign Affairs is trying to determine whether any Australians have been affected by the second quake.

More than 6500 Red Cross volunteers will redouble their efforts to deliver aid to all affected areas.

Eye doctors from the Fred Hollows Foundation have stopped surgeries and will distribute aid packages and provide medical treatment to the injured in the meantime.

"For older children, their parents are stressed and anxious and they're stressed and anxious."

"For the younger children, it's very difficult for them to understand what is going on,' Mr Cathro said.

"(The) whole night we only prayed `let this stop'." Beyond shelter, Plan International Australia spokesman Adam Cathro said it will provide mental health services to affected children.

"Nepalese are like brothers and sisters" but living outside makes people sick, he said. "We can't eat properly because of the trauma.

Initial assessments by Nepal Red Cross Society indicated hundreds of homes had collapsed. Plan International said all public spaces in Kathmandu have been transformed into tent cities for the homeless and those too scared to re-enter their homes two weeks out from the Monsoon season.

Despite the disaster, Ms Miller said she'd been amazed by Nepalese community spirit. The Australian government, which on Tuesday night reduced foreign aid, could "learn a thing or two" from their generosity, she said.

One of their Australian workers, Holly Miller, ran with her arm around a colleague to a square where hundreds of fearful people had gathered as tremors shook bricks from buildings.

ActionAid says it will focus on delivering critical aid to anyone who needs it before turning their attention to women, who are vulnerable to malnourishment and attacks in disasters.

Oxfam Australia chief executive Helen Szoke has called the second quake "the worst thing" that could have happened in the midst of Nepal's recovery and said land slides could make getting essential services to remote areas difficult.

A 7.3 magnitude quake hit 76km east of Kathmandu on Tuesday, killing at least 65 people on top of the 7.8 magnitude quake on April 25 which devastated the country and claimed the lives of more than 8100 people.

Every public space in Kathmandu has been turned into a makeshift tent city as Nepal faces an enormous recovery task following the country's second earthquake in three weeks, say Australian workers on the ground.

A sight to behold." Ms Delecca managed to avoid the 25 April quake when she left the nation's capital for a work trip, just hours before it struck. Nepal's national emergency operation centre said on Twitter that 335 people have been injured in the quake.

"My friends estimate there were at least 40 houses that are no longer.

"My friends who live out of town... could see the plumes of dust come up from the earth where houses have gone down.

"Although my house has endured the tremors until now, I felt extremely vulnerable being on the third floor," she said.

Amanda Delecca, a Kathmandu-based tourism operator originally from Bendigo, told AAP she was planning a late lunch at a local deli which lost over 400 bottles of wine in the April quake, when the "violent" tremors began. She dived under the kitchen table of her third floor apartment.

Rescue teams look for survivors in the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu following the 7.3 earthquake shook Nepal. (newzulu.com)

Rescue teams look for survivors in the debris of a collapsed building in Kathmandu following the 7.3 earthquake which shook Nepal on Tuesday. (newzulu.com)

It was followed by a series of lesser aftershocks measuring from 5.6 to 6.3 in magnitude.

The 7.30-magnitude quake hit in the early afternoon in an isolated, conservation area between Kathmandu and Mount Everest, killing at least 42 people.

"For older children, their parents are stressed and anxious and they're stressed and anxious."

"For the younger children its very difficult for them to understand what is going on," he said.

Mr Cathro said the organisation was deeply concerned for the mental health of children.

She also said there have been reports of land slides, which could make getting essential services to rural areas difficult.

Oxfam Australia CEO Helen Szoke has called the second quake "the worst thing" that could have happened in the midst of Nepal's recovery.

"Shelter was the most urgent need before and now it is even more important."

"Monsoon season is coming in about two weeks and already we're seeing heavy rain."

"Every public space, every public park we saw was an impromptu tent city (on Tuesday night)" he said.

He said many people spent the nights on the streets and shelter is needed before the monsoon season arrives.

After accounting for the safety of his colleagues, his mind turned to the Nepalese people already traumatised by the April disaster.

Speaking to AAP between aftershocks on Wednesday morning, Mr Cathro said he and colleagues ran to a courtyard and watched as their building was "rattled and swayed" by the quake.

Adam Cathro from Plan International Australia was at his office desk in Kathmandu when he experienced a sudden jolt "as if someone had slammed the brakes on in a car".

Tremors from the most recent quake were felt as far away as New Delhi.

The quake, which has so far killed around 65 people, came after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake on April 25 devastated the country and killed more than 8100 people.

Every public space in Kathmandu has become a makeshift city for the homeless after the country's second earthquake in less than three weeks.
</text>