<url>
http://thebangladeshtoday.com/2015/04/powerful-earthquake-kills-hundreds-in-nepal/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Powerful earthquake kills hundreds in Nepal
</headline>

<text>
TBT Reports

A massive tremor was felt in the capital and in many other areas of Bangladesh at around 12:15 pm on Saturday leaving two persons killed in the country.

One was identified as a woman leader of ruling Awami League’s local women front unit, Rokeya Khanam (50) died while being evacuating from her home during the quake in Pabna, and another was killed in the capital but details couldn’t be identified yet.

In Dhaka, residents of high-rise buildings were seen running down in panic as apartments swung.

A six-storied building in Old Dhaka’s Bangshal area tilted to one side due to the sudden earthquake and a 25-storey building tilted in Banani.

However, no casualties had been reported. Similar incidents had been reported from Savar, Khulna, Brahmanbaria, Kushtia, Mymensingh, Comilla, Chandpur and Rajshahi.

At least 50 readymade garment workers were injured at Ishwardi EPZ during panic evacuations. They were admitted to the Upazila Health Complex, doctors said.

Meanwhile, 60 more people were injured in the same types of incidents in Brahmanbaria, Kushtia and Sunamganj.

In India and Nepal, the quake damaged many buildings and left at least 970 people dead, BBC said quoting witnesses. The death toll is expected to rise. The Meteorological Department stated the epicentre of the earthquake was 745 km north-west of Bangladesh.

The US Geological Survey said the quake, initially measured at 7.7 but upgraded to 7.9 magnitude, struck 80 km (50 miles) east of Nepal’s Pokhara.

The death toll from a powerful earthquake that struck Nepal on Saturday rose to nearly 1000, a senior home ministry official told Reuters, with 181 people killed in the capital Kathmandu.

A Nepal-based think-tank, Asian Institute of Diplomacy and International Affairs (AIDIA) sought Bangladesh’s immediate support with food and medical aid after a massive earthquake left a trail of destruction.

“We have limited number of hospitals and medical equipment due to its weak economy and political instability”, the AIDIA founder Sunil KC said.

Nepal’s Information Minister Minendra Rijal has already appealed for international help. “We need support from the various international agencies which are more knowledgeable and equipped to handle the kind of emergency we face now,” he was quoted as saying by BBC.

The Bangladeshi Ambassador in Nepal Mashfee Binte Shams said, “There are roughly Bangladeshi 100 families living here and they all are safe”. In India, many buildings collapsed in Assam and Bihar states and also in the Darjeeling hill region and foothills. The Bangladesh embassy in Nepal opened a ‘help desk’ for its nationals.

Indian Prime Minister Modi ordered an immediate dispatch of relief and medical teams to Nepal, and the evacuation of Indian tourists.

Meanwhile, Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif offered “all possible help” that Nepal may need after the earthquake.
</text>