<url>
http://www.realitytvworld.com/news/sophia-bush-mourns-death-of-ex-beau-dan-fredinburg-who-was-killed-in-mount-everest-avalanche--50138861.php
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Sophia Bush mourns the death of ex-beau Dan Fredinburg, who was killed in Mount Everest avalanche
</headline>

<text>
UPI News Service, 04/26/2015



Actress and activist Sophia Bush says she was heartbroken to learn her friend and former beau Dan Fredinburg, an executive at Google, had been killed in an avalanche on Mount Everest.

ADVERTISEMENT

Fredinburg's sister Megan confirmed the adventurer suffered a fatal head injury Saturday morning after an earthquake rocked Nepal, killing more than 1,500 people.

Bush, who attendeded Saturday evening's White House Correspondents' Gala in Washington, expressed on Instagram her sorrow over Fredinburg's sudden passing.

"There are no adequate words. Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards, I'll likely never find them all," she posted. "Today I, and so many of my loved ones, lost an incredible friend. Dan Fredinburg was one-of-a-kind. Fearless. Funny. A dancing robot who liked to ride dinosaurs and chase the sun and envision a better future for the world. His brain knew how to build it. His heart was constantly evolving to push himself to make it so. He was one of my favorite human beings on Earth. He was one of the great loves of my life. He was one of my truest friends. He was an incredible brother, a brilliant engineer, and a damn good man. I'm devastated and simultaneously so deeply grateful to have known and loved him, and to have counted him as one of my tribe. I was so looking forward to our planned download of 'all the things' when he got home. I am crushed that I will never hear that story. I am crushed knowing that there are over 1,000 people in Nepal suffering this exact feeling, knowing that they too will never hear another tale about an adventure lived from someone that they love."

She went on to say disasters like this are "often unquantifiable, the enormity is too much to understand" and encouraged everyone to tell those important to them how much they love them because "our time on this Earth is not guaranteed."

"And please send a kiss to the sky for my friend Dan. His energy is so big and so bright, and it's all around us, so put some love toward him today. And then hug your loved ones again," she concluded her heartfelt message.

There are no adequate words. Today I find myself attempting to pick up the pieces of my heart that have broken into such tiny shards, I'll likely never find them all. Today I, and so many of my loved ones, lost an incredible friend. Dan Fredinburg was one-of-a-kind. Fearless. Funny. A dancing robot who liked to ride dinosaurs and chase the sun and envision a better future for the world. His brain knew how to build it. His heart was constantly evolving to push himself to make it so. He was one of my favorite human beings on Earth. He was one of the great loves of my life. He was one of my truest friends. He was an incredible brother, a brilliant engineer, and a damn good man. I'm devastated and simultaneously so deeply grateful to have known and loved him, and to have counted him as one of my tribe. I was so looking forward to our planned download of "all the things" when he got home. I am crushed that I will never hear that story. I am crushed knowing that there are over 1,000 people in Nepal suffering this exact feeling, knowing that they too will never hear another tale about an adventure lived from someone that they love. Disasters like this are often unquantifiable, the enormity is too much to understand. Please remember that each person who is now gone was someone's Dan. Please remember that our time on this Earth is not guaranteed. Please tell those you love that you do. Right now. This very minute. And please send a kiss to the sky for my friend Dan. His energy is so big and so bright, and it's all around us, so put some love toward him today. And then hug your loved ones again. #goodbyesweetfriend #savetheice #Nepal A photo posted by Sophia Bush (@sophiabush) on Apr 25, 2015 at 2:07pm PDT
</text>