<url>
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/nepal-earthquake-bodies-being-cremated-as-aftershocks-hamper-relief-effort-10204999.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: Bodies being cremated as aftershocks hamper relief effort
</headline>

<text>
Sleeping in the streets and shell-shocked, Nepalese cremated the dead and dug through rubble for the missing Sunday, a day after a massive Himalayan earthquake killed more than 2,200 people. Aftershocks tormented them, making buildings sway and sending panicked Kathmandu residents running into the streets.

The cawing of crows mixed with terrified screams as the worst of the aftershocks — magnitude 6.7 — pummeled the capital city. It came as planeloads of supplies, doctors and relief workers from neighboring countries began arriving in this poor Himalayan nation. No deaths or injuries were reported from the early Sunday afternoon quake, but it took an emotional toll.

"The aftershocks keep coming ... so people don't know what to expect," said Sanjay Karki, Nepal country head for global aid agency Mercy Corps. "All the open spaces in Kathmandu are packed with people who are camping outdoors. When the aftershocks come you cannot imagine the fear. You can hear women and children crying."

Powerful earthquake hits Nepal







44 show all Powerful earthquake hits Nepal





















































































1/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Victims of the earthquake are cremated at Pashupatinah Temple in Kathmandu Getty Images

2/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman prays at a temple in Kathmandu damaged by the earthquake AP

3/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese police push back residents who began protesting after waiting for hours in line to board buses back to towns and villages Getty

4/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese policeman guards a collapsed building in Kathmandu. The number of people killed in the earthquake has passed 5,000 according to official figures EPA

5/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A woman stands in silence in front of the historic Bal Krishna Thapa Chhetry temple in Kathmandu, which was been damaged by the earthquake EPA

6/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rescuers from Japan in the centre of Kathmandu; they are facing a race against time to find survivors Getty

7/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Pallets of Australian aid (blankets, tarpaulins, hygiene kits and water purification tablets) are loaded onto a No. 36 Squadron C-17A Globemaster aircraft in preparation for delivery to Nepal Getty Images

8/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Rishi Khanal is rescued after being trapped in a collapsed building in Nepal’s capital following Saturday’s earthquake Reuters

9/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Villagers shelter from rain in the Gorkha district, north-west of Kathmandu; 10 days of rain are forecast, with tens of thousands of people sleeping outdoors AFP/Getty

10/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A prayer bell is seen on top of the rubble of a damaged temple after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal Reuters

11/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search through the rubble at the earthquake damaged Durbar Square in Kathmandu. Hundreds of thousands of Nepalis spent another night in the open after a massive quake which killed more than 4,000 AFP/Getty

12/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A priest prepares a fire for the cremation of an earthquake victim at Pashupati cremation center in Kathmandu, Nepal. The official death toll from the magnitude 7.8 earthquake has risen to 5,057 people EPA

13/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese villager injured in an earthquake holds her son as they sit inside an Indian Army helicopter after being evacuated from Lapu in Gorkha AFP/Getty

14/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A satellite image showing a part of the city's historic center, left, before the 25 April 2015 earthquake and the after effects, right EPA

15/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured woman and her daughter receive medical treatment after arriving at Dhading hospital, in the aftermath of the earthquake, in Dhading Besi

16/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An elderly woman mourns in front of her destroyed home in the Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

17/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Earthquake victims collect belongings and salvage food items from a destroyed building after a major earthquake, Kumalpur village, on the outskirts of capital Kathmandu

18/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A Nepalese girl injured in the earthquake holds the hand of her mother inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

19/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese victims of the earthquake lie inside an Indian air force helicopter as they are evacuated from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

20/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured boy sleeps on the ground outside the overcrowded Dhading hospital in Dhading Besi

21/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Members of a rescue team from China huddle while planning their operation at the site of earthquake in Kathmandu

22/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Local people gather at the top of large mound where once stood a temple to view the scene of devastation in Kathmandu

23/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People pray before cremating the body of a victim of the earthquake, along a river in Kathmandu, Nepal

24/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese soldiers carry a wounded man on a makeshift stretcher to a waiting Indian air force helicopter as they evacuate victims of the earthquake from Trishuli Bazar to Kathmandu airport in Nepal

25/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person carries a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance after the child and mother were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

26/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An Indian Air Force person walks carrying a Nepalese child, wounded in the earthquake, to a waiting ambulance as the mother follows after they were evacuated from a remote area at the airport in Kathmandu

27/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian resident Santosh (2L) is met by relatives after being evacuated following an earthquake in Nepal at the railway station in Amritsar

28/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A helicopter prepares to rescue people from camp 1 and 2 at Everest Base Camp, Nepal

29/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People carry a woman from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

30/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People try to free a living man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal EPA

31/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A man struggles to free himself from under the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

32/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal, in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

33/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Dust can be seen over the city during an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

34/44 Earthquake hits Nepal A building stands damaged after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25, 2015 AP

35/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese people walk past a collapsed building in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

36/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured man is assisted after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

37/44 Earthquake hits Nepal An injured child lies on the ground outside the Medicare Hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

38/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese health workers carry injured people into an open area following an 7.9 earthquake, at Lalitpur on the outskirts of Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

39/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Indian bystanders look at a collapsed house following an earthquake, in Siliguri on April 25, 2015 AFP/Getty Images

40/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Volunteers help with rescue work at the site of a building that collapsed after an earthquake in Kathmandu, Nepal, Saturday, April 25 AP

41/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members and onlookers gather at the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu on April 25, 2015. AFP/Getty Images

42/44 Earthquake hits Nepal People search for survivors stuck under the rubble of a destroyed building, after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal, 25 April 2015. EPA

43/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Nepalese rescue members move the body of a victim from the collapsed Darahara Tower in Kathmandu GETTY

44/44 Earthquake hits Nepal Health workers take care of injured people outside the Manmohan Memorial Community Hospital after an earthquake caused serious damage in Kathmandu, Nepal EPA

Saturday's magnitude 7.8 earthquake spread horror from Kathmandu to small villages and to the slopes of Mount Everest, triggering an avalanche that buried part of the base camp packed with foreign climbers preparing to make their summit attempts. At least 17 people died there and 61 were injured.

The earthquake centered outside Kathmandu, the capital, was the worst to hit the South Asian nation in over 80 years. It destroyed swaths of the oldest neighborhoods of Kathmandu, and was strong enough to be felt all across parts of India, Bangladesh, China's region of Tibet and Pakistan.

A Japanese tourist is taken on a wheelchair to a hospital after being evacuated from Mount Everest Base Camp

By the afternoon of 26 April, authorities said at least 2,169 people had died in Nepal alone, with 61 more deaths in India and a few in other neighboring countries. At least 721 of them died in Kathmandu alone, and the number of injured nationwide was upward of 5,000. With search and rescue efforts far from over, it was unclear how much the death toll would rise.

But outside of the oldest neighborhoods, many in Kathmandu were surprised by how few modern structures — the city is largely a collection of small, poorly constructed brick apartment buildings — collapsed in the quake. While aid workers cautioned that many buildings could have sustained serious structural damage, it was also clear that the death toll would have been far higher had more buildings caved in.

An earthquake injured woman lies at a hospital in Kathmandu

Aid workers also warned that the situation could be far worse near the epicenter. The U.S. Geological Survey said the quake was centered near Lamjung, about 80 kilometers (50 miles) northwest of Kathmandu, in the Gorkha district.

Roads to that area were blocked by landslides, hindering rescue teams, said chief district official Prakash Subedi. Teams were trekking through mountain trails to reach remote villages, and helicopters would also be deployed, he said by telephone.

Injured people wait for medical treatment at Bir Hospital in Kathmandu

Local aid worker Matt Darvas said in a statement issued by his group, World Vision, that he heard that many remote mountain villages near the epicenter may have been completely buried by rock falls.

The villages "are literally perched on the sides of large mountain faces and are made from simple stone and rock construction," Darvas said. "Many of these villages are only accessible by 4WD and then foot, with some villages hours and even entire days' walks away from main roads at the best of times."

A Nepalese woman sits on a sofa outdoors surrounded by the debris of Saturday's earthquake

Nepal's worst recorded earthquake in 1934 measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.

With people fearing more quakes, tens of thousands of Nepalese spent Saturday night outside under chilly skies, or in cars and public buses. They were jolted awake by strong aftershocks early Sunday.

Everest was struck by a number of avalanches following the earthquake (Getty)

"There were at least three big quakes at night and early morning. How can we feel safe? This is never-ending and everyone is scared and worried," said Kathmandu resident Sundar Sah. "I hardly got much sleep. I was waking up every few hours and glad that I was alive."

As day broke, rescuers aided by international teams set out to dig through rubble of buildings — concrete slabs, bricks, iron beams, wood — to look for survivors.

At least 17 people died on Everest after an avalanche struck, triggered by the earthquake (Getty)

In the Kalanki neighborhood of Kathmandu, police rescuers finally extricated a man lying under a dead body, both of them buried beneath a pile of concrete slabs and iron beams. Before his rescue, his family members stood nearby, crying and praying. Police said the man's legs and hips were totally crushed.

Hundreds of people in Kalanki gathered around the collapsed Lumbini Guest House, once a three-story budget hotel and restaurant frequented by Nepalese. They watched with fear and anticipation as a single backhoe dug into the rubble.

A man cries as he walks on the street while passing through a damaged statue of Lord Buddha a day after the earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal

Police officer RP Dhamala, who was coordinating the rescue efforts, said they had already pulled out 12 people alive and six dead. He said rescuers were still searching for about 20 people believed to be trapped, but had heard no cries, taps or noises for a while.

Most areas were without power and water. The United Nations said hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley were overcrowded, and running out of emergency supplies and space to store corpses.

The Dharahara tower before the earthquake... (EPA)

Plumes of smoke, meanwhile, rose above the capital as friends, relatives and others gathered by the river to quickly cremate loved ones' remains.

Most shops in Kathmandu were shut; only fruit vendors and pharmacies seemed to be doing business.

...and after (EPA)

"More people are coming now," fruit seller Shyam Jaiswal said. "They cannot cook so they need to buy something they can eat raw."

Jaiswal said stocks were running out, and more shipments were not expected for at least a week, but added, "We are not raising prices. That would be illegal, immoral profit."

The quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this impoverished country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

Collapsed buildings in Kathmandu’s Durbar Square (EPA)

With Kathmandu airport reopened, the first aid flights began delivering aid supplies. The first to respond were Nepal's neighbors — India, China and Pakistan, all of which have been jockeying for influence over the landlocked nation. Nepal remains closest to India, with which it shares deep political, cultural and religious ties.

India suffered its own losses from the quake, with at least 61 people killed there and dozens injured. Sunday's aftershock was also widely felt in the country, and local news reports said metro trains in New Delhi and Kolkata were briefly shut down when the shaking started.

People try to free a living man from the rubble of a destroyed building after an earthquake hit Nepal

Other countries sending support Sunday included the United Arab Emirates, Germany and France.

After the chaos of Saturday — when little organized rescue and relief was seen — there was more order on Sunday as rescue teams fanned out across the city.

Workers were sending out tents and relief goods in trucks and helicopters and setting up shelters, said disaster management official Rameshwar Dangal. Mukesh Kafle, the head of the Nepal Electricity Authority, said power was restored to main government offices, the airport and hospitals.

Among the destroyed buildings in Kathmandu was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, a Kathmandu landmark built by Nepal's royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.

The Kathmandu Valley is listed as a World Heritage site. The Buddhist stupas, public squares and Hindu temples are some of the most well-known sites in Kathmandu, and now some of the most deeply mourned.

Nepali journalist and author Shiwani Neupane tweeted: "The sadness is sinking in. We have lost our temples, our history, the places we grew up."
</text>