<url>
http://www.courant.com/news/connecticut/hc-west-hartford-nepal-earthquake-reaction-20150426-story.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Connecticut's Nepalese Community Copes With Tragedy
</headline>

<text>
WEST HARTFORD — Arjun Dahal's sister, brother-in-law and their children were in a building with 40 other people Saturday when the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal.

The building collapsed while Dahal's family was still inside. The family was rescued and was taken to a hospital for treatment, but it was not clear if there were any other survivors.

"They don't know where anyone else is," said Dahal, a member of the Nepalese Association of Connecticut.

At a candlelight vigil Sunday evening, Dahal and about 200 others — most of them members of Connecticut's Nepalese community — gathered on the steps of town hall in West Hartford to try to cope with the tragedy.

Indu Moktan said she tried for three hours Saturday morning to reach her family. Once she did get through, she learned that her aunt had been trapped in the collapse of a three-story house in a village about 90 minutes away from Kathmandu, Nepal's capital.

"She's halfway paralyzed," Moktan said, pointing to her own waist and down. "She's going to need a couple of surgeries."

Moktan said roads are blocked and passage to a hospital was nearly impossible. Many of the injured were lined up the street, Moktan said.

There has been no further word of her aunt since Saturday, Moktan said.

"No one knows where she is," Moktan said.

Moktan brushed away a tear and stepped away to light a candle, joining the others on the steps. Children stood side-by-side with adults, many holding candles. On the sidewalk below, the word "Nepal" was spelled out in dozens of votive candles. A moment of silence was held to remember the victims, and a plea was made for financial support to provide aid.

Marc-Yves Regis I / Special to The Courant The Connecticut Nepalese community held a candlelight vigil on Sunday evening in front of West Hartford Town Hall for the 2,500-plus victims of Saturday's massive earthquake. The Connecticut Nepalese community held a candlelight vigil on Sunday evening in front of West Hartford Town Hall for the 2,500-plus victims of Saturday's massive earthquake. (Marc-Yves Regis I / Special to The Courant)

Pramod Pradham stood near a circle of people that formed around the votives.

A digital programming specialist at Hartford Public Library, Pradham said he woke Saturday morning to a puzzling text from a friend at the library.

The text read, "Is your family OK?"

Pradham said he didn't know what his friend was talking about, until he turned on the news.

After hours of unsuccessful attempts Saturday morning, Pradham said he reached his brother-in-law who works at the U.S. Embassy in Nepal. But as of Sunday evening, there was still no news about his mother or aunt, who live in Bhaktapur, about 8 miles outside of Kathmandu.

He said he fears for their safety because "it is a very ancient city, and the structures are really old."

As Sunday's vigil was winding down, Pradham said, "Now we have to go back and make some more calls and see what we can find out."

Earlier Sunday, members of the Nepalese community gathered at the West Hartford home of association president Ghanashyam Khadka to discuss how the best help their loved ones.

Khadka said four West Hartford families have been affected by the earthquake that devastated Kathmandu and triggered avalanches on Mount Everest.

Two of those families have loved ones who are among the more than 2,500 people dead, Khadka said. More than 5,900 have been reported injured, and both numbers continue to rise.

Storrs resident Bidya Ranjeet's aunt went to a hospital to be treated for a broken hip and wrist. She was initially placed on a mattress on the floor, but was eventually sent away.

"They can't treat her because there are more serious conditions," Ranjeet said. "She needs surgery and they said it's going to be a couple of weeks because the hospital is so overwhelmed."

Members said landline telephones have been disrupted and they've been contacting family via cellphones. However, without electricity, batteries are running low. There is little food and water. Rescue efforts have been complicated as buildings continue to collapse as rainfall and aftershocks, including one registering a magnitude of 6.7, plague the region.

"We're getting these calls that they can't sleep at night because they close their eyes and they think the earth is shaking," Ranjeet said. "That's the urgency for this community to come together. It's very sad. We don't know what to do."

Ranjeet added that cultural devastation makes the destruction all the more difficult.

"It's not just a loss for the Nepalese, it's a loss for the whole world," she said. "Centuries of temples and palaces are gone. I feel like I'm losing my identity."

Members of the association said they are appealing to people to pray and support the relief cause in any way they can. They are hoping to coordinate efforts with volunteers and doctors willing to travel to provide relief.

Stamford-based AmeriCares has sent a response team and is preparing to send medical and relief supplies it has stockpiled in Mumbai, India.

"Our emergency response team is en route to Nepal and we are prepared to help any way that we can," AmeriCares President and CEO Michael J. Nyenhuis said Saturday. "This is a terrible tragedy and our hearts go out to the families suffering."

Khadka said the association is approaching small business in Greater Hartford requesting donations through the PayPal account on the organization's website.

"We are trying to create awareness among the communities to come forward to help the victims of this tragic earthquake which took lives of hundreds of young children, men and women and left thousands homeless on the streets … with no food and water," Khadka said.

For more information or to donate, go to CTNepali.org.
</text>