<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Nepal-earthquake-At-least-200-from-Karnataka-feared-stranded/articleshow/47061459.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: At least 200 from Karnataka feared stranded
</headline>

<text>
BENGALURU: A day after an earthquake ravaged Nepal, at least a couple of hundred people from Karnataka are suspected to be stranded in the Himalayan nation as on Sunday. However, no one from the state figured in the earthquake casualties till late in the night.Rescue officials from Karnataka said they have identified that at least 336 people from 18 districts of the state were in the land-locked nation when the temblor's fury unraveled on Saturday. About 95 of them have been evacuated to New Delhi since then.Among the stranded is a 29-year-old mountaineer, JP Nagar resident CM Praveen, who is on an expedition to Mount Everest. Praveen and his team-mates are, however, safe in Base I camp, about 19,500 feet above sea level.About 150 people stranded in Nepal have returned to New Delhi in batches through road and special Indian Air Force flights. A batch of 82 people belonging to Karnataka reached New Delhi in an IAF aircrafts. Officials said another 35 people from Haralahalli in Mandya District are on their way to Gorakpur and added that another batch of 30 people from Belagavi are also on their way to the Indian border.Those who have reached Delhi are being given train tickets, while some of them have opted to fly back home on their own. A family of five from Bengaluru became the first quake-hit to return home as they landed in the city and drove straight to their JP Nagar residence in the afternoon.Three groups of tourists from the state have been reported to be in safe locations. A group of 92 tourists from the city have reached Varanasi, 35 from Mandya have reached Gorakhpur and 30 from Belagavi have reached a border town in Bihar, said Sarojamma, deputy secretary, revenue department.According to sources in state government, some callers have reported groups that have gone missing. The state's disaster control room officials said as there are many overlaps in the information they have received, they haven't been able to freeze on the exact number of people from Karnataka stranded in Nepal."In some calls, we were just told a group of 15 people are stuck there. While we have names of the 336 people who were or still are in Nepal, the numbers could be much more," said a disaster control room official.The two officers sent by Karnataka, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, IAS and Umesh Kumar, IPS, to oversee the operations had to return before landing in Kathmandu on Sunday afternoon as the aerodrome was shut following the second round of tremors felt in the area."Once again in the evening our officers flew to Kathmandu and they are expected to land anytime soon in the Nepalese capital. They will be overseeing the rescue work during the coming days. There are many people at the Kathmandu airport already," said Kaushik Mukherjee, chief secretary, Karnataka.
</text>