<url>
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/hundreds-die-in-nepal-quake/story-e6frg6so-1227320962089?nk=ef0798c667016b3f79ec97ac423f4287
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: hundreds killed in 7.8 magnitude quake
</headline>

<text>
Hundreds die in Nepal quake

Powerful aftershocks have rocked Nepal, panicking survivors of a quake that killed more than 2350 and triggering fresh avalanches at Everest base camp, as rescuers dug through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu.

Terrified residents, many forced to camp out after Saturday’s quake reduced buildings to rubble, were jolted by this afternoon’s 6.7-magnitude aftershock that compounded the worst disaster to hit the impoverished Himalayan nation in more than 80 years.

interior Ministry spokesman Laxmi Dhakal says a total of 2352 people are confirmed dead across the country and 5838 people have been injured.

Officials in India said the toll there now stood at 60, while Chinese state media said 17 people had been killed in the Tibet region.

With scores of people still missing or seriously injured, the death toll is expected to climb further.

Hospitals were so stretched that medics had to set up tents outside to treat patients.

The historic nine-storey Dharahara tower, a major tourist attraction, was among the buildings brought down, with at least a dozen bodies recovered from the ruins of the 19th-century tower.

Offers of help poured in from around the world, with the United States and European Union announcing they were sending in disaster response teams and Australia giving $5 million in assistance, half of which will go to Australian non-government organisations .

India flew out its stranded citizens in military planes while a 62-strong Chinese rescue team arrived with sniffer dogs.

National police spokesman Kamal Singh Bam said the number known to have died in Nepal had risen to 1953 while 4629 people had been injured.

Officials in India said the toll there now stood at 53, mainly in the eastern state of Bihar, while Chinese state media said 17 people had been killed in the Tibet region.

Officials said 17 people were so far known to have died on Mount Everest where an avalanche triggered by the earthquake buried part of base camp.

It is the deadliest disaster in Everest’s history and comes almost exactly a year after an avalanche killed 16 sherpa guides.

AFP’s Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly, on an assignment at base camp, reported that six helicopters had managed to reach the mountain today after the weather improved overnight.

An injured person is loaded onto a rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp, a day after an avalanche triggered by an earthquake devastated the camp.

A stunning image captured by the agency’s South Asia photo chief Roberto Schmidt showed a massive cloud of snow and debris cascading onto base camp, burying scores of climbers and flattening tents.

“People being stretchered out as choppers land — half a dozen this morning,” Kannampilly said in a text message.

“Weather clear, some snowfall.” The country’s cellphone network was working only sporadically, while large parts of the capital were without electricity.

In this photograph, a cloud of snow and debris triggered by an earthquake flies towards Everest Base Camp, moments ahead of flattening part of the camp in the Himalayas. Picture: Roberto Schmidt

AFP correspondents in Kathmandu reported that tremors were felt throughout the night.

“It has been a sleepless night, how can we sleep? It has been shaking all night. We are just praying that this will end and we can return home,” said Nina Shrestha, a 34-year-old banker who spent the night with hundreds of people on open ground in the capital’s Tudhikhel district.

As rescuers sifted through the huge mounds of rubble, the hospitals were overflowing with victims who suffered multiple fractures and trauma.

“We have treated many people since yesterday, majority children,” said Samir Acharya, a doctor at Nepal’s Annapurna Neurological Hospital.

“Most patients have head injuries or fractures. Two of our patients died, two are critical.” Acharya said medics were working out of a tent set up in a parking lot because of overflowing patients, while some patients were too scared to stay in the building.

Rescue team personnel carry an injured person towards a waiting rescue helicopter at Everest Base Camp today.

Families had grabbed whatever possessions they could muster and sought shelter on the streets, many of which had been split asunder.

Weather forecasters warned that rain was on the way, with dark clouds looming over Kathmandu and promising more misery for displaced survivors.

Snowfalls on Saturday had thwarted efforts to airlift survivors from Everest, where around 800 mountaineers were gathered at the start of the annual climbing season, cancelled last year after the sherpa deaths.

Google executive Dan Fredinburg was one of the climbers to have been confirmed as having been killed.

Experienced mountaineers said panic erupted at base camp, which has been “severely damaged”, while one described the avalanche as “huge”.

“Seventeen have been reported dead so far and 61 are injured,” said Tulsi Gautam of Nepal’s tourism department which issues permits to climb the world’s highest mountain.

“Those who are able are walking down. Others are being airlifted.”

Kannampilly said many of those stranded at the scene were walking down the mountain rather than risk being stuck for days.

George Foulsham, a Singapore-based marine biologist, described the moment that the disaster struck.

“I was outside, saw a white 50-storey building of white come at me. I ran and it just flattened me,” he told AFP.

“I tried to get up and it flattened me again. I couldn’t breathe, I thought I was dead. When I finally stood up, I couldn’t believe it passed me over and I was almost untouched.

“I saved for years to climb Everest. It feels like the mountain is saying it’s not meant to be climbed for now. Too much of a coincidence to see this twice in two years.” Nepal and the rest of the Himalayas are particularly prone to earthquakes because of the collision of the Indian and Eurasia plates.

An 6.8 magnitude quake hit eastern Nepal in August 1988 killing 721 people, and a magnitude 8.1 quake killed 10,700 people in Nepal and India in 1934.

Aussies safe

More than 200 Australians in Nepal are confirmed safe after the massive earthquake.

However, authorities are still trying to contact hundreds of others, with 549 Australians registered as travelling in Nepal. Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop says officials are working under challenging conditions to locate all those in the country.

The federal government has committed $5 million in assistance, half of which will go to Australian non-government organisations.

An Australian Crisis Response Team will travel to Nepal as soon as possible to assist in establishing the welfare of the Australians still unaccounted for after Saturday’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake.

“While there are reports of extensive loss of life, at this point there are no reports of Australian deaths,” Ms Bishop said in a statement on Sunday.

Worried relatives have inundated social media with pleas for help and information.

Twitter and Facebook pages are showing images of Australians in Nepal while many families have reported dozens of loved ones missing on The Red Cross’s Family Links website.

One is 24-year-old Sydney business owner Matthew Graves, who was travelling through Pokhara.

His brother, Mitch Graves, is at home in Sydney waiting for news while their parents are overseas in America.

“It’s a bit of a struggle trying to communicate to everyone. It is a waiting game at the moment,” he told AAP.

The younger brother of Australian actor Hugh Sheridan is also missing.

“Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest,” Mr Sheridan tweeted.

Deb Williams is still waiting for news about her Brisbane-based son Jai, who was due to be at Mount Everest base camp on Saturday. Mr Williams was trekking with his friend Ben Flanders.

After being reported as missing, Perth woman Ballantyne Paige Forder has been found safe. The 22-year-old contacted her family today after helping move the orphanage where she worked to a field.

Amanda-Sue Markham tweeted: “My baby sister is safe. Prayers answered as she and the orphanage moved to safety”.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) has opened its emergency call unit and updated travel advice for Nepal, warning of disruptions to communication, transport and tourist infrastructure in the country.

Australians concerned for family and friends are asked to try to contact them directly before calling DFAT’s 24-hour consular emergency centre on (02) 6261-3305 or, within Australia, 1300 555 135.

Aid agencies are already sending teams to Nepal to help in the aftermath of the country’s deadliest earthquake in more than 80 years.

Oxfam Australia chief executive Helen Szoke says a group of disaster specialists from the UK is flying in with supplies. “People are gathered in their thousands in open spaces and are scared,” Dr Szoke said in a statement.

The head of World Vision Australia Tim Costello is flying to Nepal to assess the recovery effort.

He says there are already 200 Nepalese World Vision staff on the ground and its relief experts are being flown in from Bangladesh and India.

He called on governments to mobilise and collaborate in the relief effort.

Anxious wait for families of Australians

By 10am on Sunday, worried relatives and friends had listed 66 names on The Red Cross’s Family Links website.

Since the 7.8-magnitude earthquake hit on Saturday, families have been putting the names of missing loved ones on website.

The younger brother of Australian actor Hugh Sheridan is among the missing.

“Please. Anyone who is awake, please pray for my little brother Zachary who is on Mt Everest,” Mr Sheridan tweeted.

The families of two Queensland friends believed to be on a hike to the Mount Everest base camp are also desperate for any news of their whereabouts.

Ben Flanders and Jai Williams, both from the Brisbane area, were due to reach the camp on Saturday, according to Jai’s mother Deb Williams.

Ms Williams has pleaded for information from her son’s guide, Rahul Shrestha, on Facebook.

“Do you know if they made it, are they ok?” she wrote on Sunday morning.

“I am terrified I can’t get any information.”

The federal opposition has called on the Abbott government to offer every assistance towards the recovery effort in Nepal.

“Labor has asked the government for urgent advice about the safety of Australians reported to have been in the area at the time,” Opposition foreign spokeswoman Tanya Plibersek said in a statement today.

New Zealand says it stands ready to assist with financial and practical help, as authorities confirm that about 100 Kiwis in Nepal are safe and efforts to contact others continue.

Foreign aid agencies are already sending assistance to Nepal as the country grapples with the worst earthquake in more than 80 years.

Oxfam Australia chief executive Helen Szoke says a group of disaster specialists from the UK is flying in with supplies. “People are gathered in their thousands in open spaces and are scared, as there were several aftershocks,” Dr Szoke said in a statement.

Search for survivors

Tens of thousands of people were spending the night in the open under a chilly and thunderous sky after a powerful earthquake devastated Nepal on Saturday, killing nearly 1400, collapsing modern houses and ancient temples and triggering a landslide on Mount Everest.

Officials warned the death toll would rise as more reports came in from far-flung areas.

Inspector Yuvraj Khadka of Nepal’s national police force said that rescue effort was continuing through the night and the death toll had reached 1394 people.

The earthquake, which hit struck at 11.56am (4.11pm AEST), was the worst tremor to hit the poor South Asian nation in over 80 years.

It was strong enough to be felt all across the northern part of neighbouring India, Bangladesh, Tibet and Pakistan, where a total of 50 people died.

As Nepal trembled, residents fled homes and buildings in panic. Walls tumbled, trees swayed, power lines came crashing down and large cracks opened up on streets and walls. Clouds of dust began to swirl all around.

Within hours of the quake, hospitals had filled up with hundreds of injured people. With organised relief and rescue lacking, many survivors were brought to hospitals by friends and relatives in motorised rickshaws, flatbed trucks and cars. Residents used their bare hands, crowbars and other tools to dig through rubble and rescue survivors.

More than two dozen aftershocks jolted the area after the first quake, which struck just before noon. At the time, Shrish Vaidya, who runs an advertising agency, was in his two-storey house outside the capital Kathmandu with his parents.

“It is hard to describe. The house was shaking like crazy. We ran out and it seemed like the road was heaving up and down,” Vaidya, 46, told The Associated Press. “I don’t remember anything like this before. Even my parents can’t remember anything this bad.”

Once the first shaking stopped, Vaidya thought his family could return indoors by evening. But the jolts kept coming, and they felt safer outdoors.

“It’s cold and windy so we are all sitting in the car listening to the news on FM radio,” he said. “The experts are saying it’s still not safe to go back inside. No one can predict how big the next aftershock will be.”

So the family ate dinner outside with the headlights of their car providing light. Vaidya was grateful his wife and 10-year-old son were on holiday in the U.S.

In his largely affluent neighbourhood of low-rise, sturdy homes in suburban Kathmandu the damage was relatively light. In other parts of the city where the buildings are older and poorly built people were not as lucky.

Forecasts called for rain and thunder showers later Saturday and Sunday and the temperatures were cold enough to make camping outside uncomfortable.

Thousands of people were spending the night at Tudikhel, a vast open ground in the middle of Kathmandu, just next to the old city that is lined with historic buildings and narrow lanes. Now it is in ruins.

People lay on plastic sheets or cardboard boxes, wrapped in blankets. Mothers kept their children warm; some lit fire with whatever wood they could find. Most were eating instant noodles and cookies.

Deepak Rauniar, a shop worker who was there with his friends, said: “We are too scared to go back to our apartment. It is surrounded closely by houses, most of them old. The houses could collapse while we are still sleeping.”

Prime Minister Sushil Koirala, who was attending a summit in Jakarta, tried to rush back home but made it as far as Bangkok where his connecting flight to Kathmandu was cancelled because the capital’s international airport was shut down for commercial flights.

Indian air force planes were allowed to bring in 43 tons of relief material, including tents and foods, and nearly 200 rescuers, India’s External Affairs Ministry spokesman Vikas Swarup said. The planes were returning to New Delhi with Indian nationals who were stranded in Kathmandu. India’s state-run Air India announced that it would begin relief flights to the Nepalese capital Sunday.

Hospitals in the Kathmandu Valley were overcrowded, running out of room for storing dead bodies and running out of emergency supplies, the United Nations said in a statement.

“The reports of the devastation are still coming in and the numbers of people killed, injured and affected by this earthquake continue to rise,” U.N. chief Ban Ki-moon said. “It is clear that very many lives have been lost. There has also been significant damage to Nepal’s irreplaceable cultural heritage.”

While the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster were yet to be known, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world, and its rich Hindu culture. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, relies heavily on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain climbing.

A mountaineering guide, Ang Tshering, said an avalanche swept the face of Mt. Everest after the earthquake, and government officials said at least 10 climbers were killed and 30 injured. Their nationalities were not immediately known.

Carsten Lillelund Pedersen, a Dane who was climbing the Everest with a Belgian, Jelle Veyt, said on his Facebook page that they were at Khumbu Icefall , a rugged area of collapsed ice and snow close to base camp at altitude 5,000 meters, when the earthquake hit.

“Right now, it is pretty chaotic and we try to help those injured,” Pedersen wrote in an email to Danish news agency Ritzau.

Norwegian climber Teodor Glomnes Johansen told a newspaper in Norway that people at base camp were working on saving lives.

“All those who are unharmed organise help with the rescue efforts. Men, women and Sherpas are working side by side. The job right now is to assist the doctors in the camp here,” Glomnes Johansen told Norway’s VG newspaper.

The U.S. Geological Survey put the magnitude of the quake at 7.8. It said the quake hit at 11:56am local time at Lamjung, about 80km northwest of Kathmandu. Its depth was only 11km, the largest shallow quake since the 8.2 temblor off the coast of Chile on April 1, 2014.

The shallower the quake the more destructive power it carries.

A magnitude 7 quake is capable of widespread and heavy damage while an 8 magnitude quake can cause tremendous damage. This means Saturday’s quake - with the same magnitude as the one that hit San Francisco in 1906 - was about 16 times more powerful than the 7.0 quake that devastated Haiti in 2010.

The quake occurred at the boundary between the two pieces, or plates, of Earth’s crust, one of which supports India to the south and the other Eurasia to the north. The Indian Plate is moving at 45 millimetres a year under the Eurasian Plate, and this results in earthquakes once every 500 year on an average, said Marin Clark, a geophysicist at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

So the quake was “definitely not a surprise,” she said. Over millions of years, such quakes have led to the uplift of the Himalayas. Nepal suffered its worst recorded earthquake in 1934, which measured 8.0 and all but destroyed the cities of Kathmandu, Bhaktapur and Patan.

The power of Saturday’s tremors brought down several buildings in the centre of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers.

Among them was the nine-story Dharahara Tower, one of Kathmandu’s landmarks built by Nepal’s royal rulers as a watchtower in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognised historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath.

Hundreds of people buy tickets on weekends to go up to the viewing platform on the eighth story, but it was not clear how many were up there when the tower collapsed. Video footage showed people digging through the rubble of the tower, looking for survivors.

The Kathmandu Valley is listed as a World Heritage site and is a collection of seven locations around Nepal’s capital that reflect the country’s rich religious history. The Buddhist stupas, public squares and Hindu temples are some of the most well-known sites in Kathmandu, and now some of the most deeply mourned.

The head of the U.N. cultural agency, Irina Bokova, said in a statement that UNESCO was ready to help Nepal rebuild from “extensive damage, including to historic monuments and buildings of the Kathmandu Valley.”

Nepali journalist and author Shiwani Neupane tweeted: “The sadness is sinking in. We have lost our temples, our history, the places we grew up.”

Climbers caught in earthquake on Everest

An avalanche at Mount Everest base camp triggered by a massive earthquake killed at least 13 people, including foreign climbers, a Nepalese official said.

“We don’t have the details yet, but 10 have been reported dead so far, including foreign climbers,” Gyanendra Kumar Shrestha from Nepal’s tourism department told AFP.

AFP Nepal bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly said she was caught in the earthquake that ripped though large parts of the country.

“We got caught in an earthquake on Everest. We are both okay … snowing here so no choppers coming,” she said in an SMS on approach to base camp while on assignment.

Two experienced mountaineers reported that panic erupted at base camp which was full of climbing teams and had been “severely damaged”, while one said the quake triggered a “huge avalanche”.

“Running for life from my tent. Unhurt. Many many people up the mountain,” tweeted Romanian climber Alex Gavan who had been preparing to climb up nearby Lhotse, the world’s fourth highest mountain.

Another climber Daniel Mazur said his team was trapped at camp one higher up the mountain in the wake of the earthquake.

“A massive earthquake just hit Everest. Base camp has been severely damaged. Our team is caught in Camp 1. Please pray for everyone,” he also tweeted.

Everest was hit by an avalanche last year that killed 16 guides and triggered an unprecedented shutdown of the mountain.

About 700 climbers are in Solukhumbhu district that includes Everest, with 300 thought to be at base camp itself, deputy superintendent of police Chandra Dev Rai said.

“We are trying to reach them to see if they are safe, but the phones are not working,” he told AFP from Solukhumbhu town through which climbers pass en route to the mountain.

Additional reporting: AFP
</text>