<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/Nepal-earthquake-13-more-planes-join-rescue-operations/articleshow/47063664.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepal earthquake: 13 more planes join rescue operations
</headline>

<text>
NEW DELHI: India's rescue and relief operations in Nepal moved into high gear on Sunday with the government sending another 13 military aircraft with rescue personnel and relief material to Kathmandu. After a review meeting of top officials, called by the prime minister, the government decided to send an inter-ministerial team of officials led by an additional secretary to coordinate the massive operation in Nepal. "Rapid rescue and relief is our primary mission at present," foreign secretary S Jaishankar told reporters on Sunday."We are sending a senior level team to Nepal to coordinate everything. This was decided in our meeting with the PM and senior ministers today," he added.Indian armed forces along with National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), being the first foreign teams to reach Nepal, are at the forefront of rescue and relief work, named 'Operation Maitri'.For the Indian Army, which said it was prepared for the long haul in Nepal, there is also an emotional reason beyond the call of duty in a humanitarian crisis. Indian defence has had a 200-year history of Gurkha soldiers from Nepal in the Army. Currently, there are around 40,000 Gurkha soldiers in the Indian Army and around 1.25 lakh retired Gurkha Regiment soldiers in Nepal. Sources said the Indian Army is moved by a sense of "payback".Incidentally, Army chief Gen Dalbir Singh Suhag, who spoke to his Nepalese counterpart Gen SJB Rana soon after the quake to kickstart rescue operations, is an officer of the Gurkha Rifles Regiment. He is also the honorary chief of the Nepalese Army. On Sunday, Gen Suhag cancelled his scheduled trip to Sri Lanka (April 27-30) to monitor rescue operations in Nepal."We are also working along with our Gurkha ex-servicemen interface for guidance, relief and rescue," an Army spokesperson said.Sunday's rescue efforts in Nepal were hampered by powerful aftershocks measuring 6.9 on the Richter scale. With its epicenter in Kodari, the quake forced Kathmandu airport to shut down for a few hours. Despite this, India has mounted a mammoth relief effort, with 13 aircraft, including C-17, IL-76 and AN-32 carrying food, drinking water, blankets and medical supplies, making it into Kathmandu by Sunday evening.Six IAF Mi-17 helicopters flew virtually non-stop since the morning to rescue around 200 people in the Himalayan country. "The helicopters also have Nepalese Army pilots on board to help our pilots familiarize with the terrain. Six persons, for instance, were evacuated by an Mi-17 from the badly-damaged Dhuncha helipad, 50 km north of Kathmandu. Apart from the six Mi-17s already operating in Nepal, six more Indian helicopters are on standby," said an IAF officer.Briefing reporters after the PM's review meeting, top officials - foreign secretary, home secretary, defence secretary and the NDMA chief - said India was currently focused on rescue operations in Kathmandu, before spreading out to other parts of Nepal.Three mobile hospitals have been transported to Nepal, and 10 NDRF teams are at work, officials said.The returning aircraft have been evacuating stranded Indians as well as nationals from other countries. So far, India has brought back almost 1,000 people in military aircraft. In addition, Air India has announced it would run extra flights on reduced fares, while private airlines Jet Airways and Indigo have pitched in with extra planes. More helicopters have been placed on standby, Jaishankar said.IAF aircraft on Sunday also carried 8,000 thousand blankets, 500 tents, 14 tones of food (noodles), 34 paramedics, 100 stretches, 1 tonne of medicine and six tonnes of prepared food.Taking cognizance of the request of the Nepalese government for oxygen on account of problems in the Kathmandu oxygen plant, additional cylinders are being dispatched.Jaishankar said the rescue operation was not without its challenges - phone networks and internet was erratic, which made communication difficult. The phone numbers at the control rooms set up by the Indian government have been overwhelmed by the number of callers, so the government has resorted to social media and emails to register rescue and evacuation requests.The government is currently using Kathmandu airport but will gradually look at using other airports too, Jaishankar said. Questioned about reconstruction, he indicated India would play a big part in that as well.With thousands clamouring to be taken out and crowding the Kathmandu airport, government appealed for patience. Meanwhile, Jaishankar said buses would also be used to remove people from Nepal. The roads were still motorable, but they were clogged with traffic. So the going would be slow, but this would open up another channel of evacuation.Baburam Bhattarai, former Nepal PM, described it as the greatest disaster in 80 years. Expressing appreciation of support and assistance from India and China, he said reports from the more remote areas suggested even greater damage and loss of life, particularly in the mountainous areas.Indian Army Everest Expedition was training at Base Camp when the earthquake struck, said sources. Their equipment was buried in the avalanche, but the team is safe and has helped in recovery of bodies of other foreign climbers. As many as 19 bodies and 61 injured persons were rescued by the Indian Army Expedition Team.
</text>