<url>
http://www.ucanews.com/news/nepalese-women-rebuild-homes-to-be-earthquake-proof/75859
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Nepalese women rebuild homes to be earthquake proof
</headline>

<text>
Mira Devi Bhatt is one of 27 women builders who have been trained in earthquake-proof building techniques by Caritas Nepal in central Gorkha.

"I now know the importance of building a house that is safer," Bhatt, a 33-year-old resident of a small village badly affected by the 7.8-magnitude earthquake that devastated Nepal April 25 last year.

The quake and its aftershocks killed nearly 9,000 people in the Himalayan nation. A year on, more than 4 million people still live in temporary shelters and over 700,000 houses need to be rebuilt.

Since November last year, Caritas Nepal has provided building training in seven different parts of Gorkha. Among those trained, 30 are women.

"The role of women will be very crucial in rebuilding the country as they are the ones who are particularly affected during the earthquake disaster and the need to rebuild better is very important to them," said Father Silas Bogati, executive director of Caritas Nepal.

Along with activities in Gorkha, Caritas Nepal has focused its key aid activities on the Sindupalchok, Kavre, Dolakha and Sindhuli districts.

Caritas is planning to provide funding to build 4,400 houses in earthquake affected districts, and is holding negotiations with the National Reconstruction Authority for the approval to go ahead with the plan, said Father Bogati.

"Women's participation in utilizing the aid money in a proper way is very important," he said. "We tend to think men will squander the money."

Father Bogati explained that the government now has decided to provide the reconstruction aid on an installment basis and they suggested the same for the development partners and non-government organizations.

"The money will come in handy and ensuring that it is spent wisely is important," the priest added.

The Nepalese government itself has started distributing the first installment 50,000 rupees (US$ 500) of a promised amount of 200,000 rupees to affected households for rebuilding purposes. About 700 of the total 770,000 households have received first installment so far. Only buildings that are to be made earthquake-resistant are eligible to access the fund.

Homebuilder Kanchi Maya Tamang in front of an almost completed four room earthquake-resistant house in central Nepal. (Photo by Ananta Bhandari)

Putting training to use

Currently there is also a shortage of workers in Nepal mostly due to migration for foreign employment and so various organizations have come forward in help train the Nepalese in earthquake-proof building techniques.

Over 34,000 people are expected to be trained in earthquake-proof building techniques, according to the Housing Recovery and Reconstruction Platform, which is co-led by the International Organization for Migration and UN Habitat, under the guidance of the Nepalese government.

So far just over 3,000 people have received the training, of which 119 of them are women.

One of them is 30-year-old Kanchi Maya Tamang.

Several days before the earthquake's first anniversary, Tamang applied a final coating of plaster to an earthquake-resistant building that she was helping build in a village in Kathmandu District.

"This will be ready next week," said Tamang in reference to the four-roomed house that she was building.

Tamang improved her building skills at a five-day training in safe construction provided by the U.N..

"I have been working in construction for more than three years, starting as an average laborer to now being trained in building earthquake-resistant homes," said Tamang, who has already helped construct 10 homes inside Kathmandu Valley so far.

The earthquake damaged Tamang's home in Nuwakot District, along with over 90 percent of the other homes in her village.

"I was working in building construction site in Kathmandu when the earthquake happened," she said.

"I visited my village soon after, the house was under rubble but my family members escaped the disaster," she said.

Since then, her six family members have been living under temporary shelter and waiting to rebuild through the help of the government's reconstruction aid.

"Everyone in our village is waiting for the government aid to build new homes," she said.

"We hope to start the construction of our home soon and this time I will make sure it remains standing when earthquake hits next time."

These Newari women are making compressed bricks, which will be used to make earthquake-resistant houses in their village. (Photo by Ananta Bhandari)

Need to make 400,000 bricks

In the small village of Sanogaun, situated on the outskirts of Kathmandu, a group of women from the Newari ethnic group help lead rebuilding efforts by making compressed bricks, which are twice as strong as traditional varieties.

Their village of around 55 households was completely flattened in the earthquake.

"My father-in-law was killed after he was buried underneath the rubble of our house," said Laxmi Shrestha, 38, whose family is still living in a tent.

Shrestha and other village women were trained on how to make the compressed bricks by the Lutheran World Federation and the Grassroots Movement in Nepal, a non-profit based in the United States.

Since December they have already made over 80,000 bricks and they aim to make 400,000 bricks to help rebuild the houses destroyed in their village.

The more women who can learn how to build a safe building the better, said Amod Mani Dixit, executive director of Nepal Society of Earthquake Technology, a non-government organization providing technical expertise in preparing earthquake-resilient communities.

"Rebuilding after the earthquake is all about buildings and houses and ensuring that they are built safe and resilient," said Dixit.

"From experience we have found that women are the most important stakeholders in this whole rebuilding process," he said.

"If we are able to convince a woman, then the whole family is convinced," he added.
</text>