<url>
http://gulfnews.com/news/uae/emergencies/large-number-of-nepal-expats-in-uae-from-quake-affected-areas-1.1499403
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Large number of Nepal expats in UAE from quake affected areas
</headline>

<text>
Bhaktapur : Rescue workers remove debris as they search for victims of earthquake in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu,

Bhaktapur : Rescue workers remove debris as they search for victims of earthquake in Bhaktapur near Kathmandu, Image Credit: AP

Abu Dhabi: Laxmi Mani Nepal was delighted to hear about the miraculous escape of his wife and children in Kathmandu, but he was anxiously trying to contact his sister and family in a village without any success until Sunday evening.

“As soon my wife and children heard a loud noise, they ran out of the house to find that half of the two-storey building was collapsing. Had they been late for a minute…,” Nepal could not finish his sentence. His wife and children are living in a rented house in Kathmandu for the engineering education of his son.

“We don’t have professional colleges in remote towns and villages. That’s why thousands of rural families are living in rented houses in Kathmandu for the purpose of children’s education and many of them have been affected by the earthquake,” he said.

Short-lived

The 47-year old electrical supervisor’s relief and happiness were short-lived when he tried to contact his mother and sister living in Jhapa district, around 400 kilometres from Kathmandu.

“I still could not reach them. But someone in the village informed me my mother safe. Still I could not contact my sister and family living in another village,” Nepal said.

Santhosh Wagla, 26, a storekeeper in Dubai, said he was unable to reach his parents and newly married wife on phone. “Miraculously, WiFi at home is working and I communicated with my wife on WhatsApp,” said Wagla, who is from Nawalparasi district, around 200km away from Kathmandu.

Dhananjay Jha, Nepalese Ambassador to the UAE, told Gulf News that of the estimated 300,000 Nepalese expatriates in the UAE, many of them are from the devastated areas of Kathmandu and four adjoining districts — Gorkha, Nuwakot, Dhading and Sindhupalchok.

Nepalese have come to the UAE from almost all 75 districts of Nepal but many of them are from the densely populous districts of Dhanusha and Biratnagar also, Jha said.

Raising funds

He said the reported death toll could be from easily accessible areas only. “We don’t have police presence in many remote areas. When authorities reach those affected remote areas, the death toll may go up further,” the envoy said.

He said the Nepalese community organisations in the UAE swiftly conducted meetings in Abu Dhabi and Dubai on Saturday and appealed to the embassy to advise them on fund-raising for the victims.

“We are writing to the UAE government for their permission and advice in this regard,” Jha said. He thanked the UAE Government for sending a team for rescue and relief operations, and relief materials.

Krishna Prasad Bhusal, 48, the president of the UAE chapter of the Non-Resident Nepalese Organisation (NRNA) registered with the Nepalese Government, said the victims immediately need tents, blankets, first-aid kits, and dry fruits. Those who want to contribute can contact the embassy, he said. .

Uttam Adhikari, 38, a security officer from Gorkha district, said some of his friends and relatives sustained injuries. “Fortunately, my family is safe,” he said.

Contact Nepalese embassy:-

+971-2-6344385

+971-2-634476

Non-Resident Nepalese Organisation (NRNA)- 050-5841567.
</text>