<url>
http://indiatoday.intoday.in/story/nepal-earthquake-narendra-modi-helping-hand-sushil-koirala/1/432188.html
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
India reaches out to earthquake-hit Nepal, Modi speaks to Sushil Koirala
</headline>

<text>
Like a good neighbour and global leader, India on Saturday acted with unusual alacrity in extending a helping hand to the earthquake-ravaged and griefstricken Nepal.

Even before the full extent of damage caused by the powerful 7.9-magnitude earthquake could unfold in Nepal, India galvanised all its resources to help the Himalayan state cope with the tragedy.

Nearly 1,450 people have perished in Nepal under the temblor's impact and the toll is steadily rising. The number of casualties in India stands at 38, followed by 12 in Tibet and four in Bangladesh.

The tremors, which originated between Kathmandu and Nepal's second biggest city Pokhara, were felt across the large expanse of India - from Siliguri to Jaipur - but the maximum damage was restricted to the Himalayan state.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who swung into action immediately after experiencing the shaking earth in New Delhi, declared that "Nepal's pain is India's pain" and that the earthquake "has left us very sad".

People gather in Kathmandu's Durbar Square, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, after the quake on Saturday. The area was completely damaged by the tremors that ripped through Nepal.

Modi, who spoke with his Nepalese counterpart Sushil Koirala who was in transit from Bangkok, later said: "I spoke to the PM and President of Nepal. Have assured them that our entire nation is with them in this hour of need."

New Delhi acted swiftly, with Modi presiding an emergency response meeting at 3 pm. By the time it got over, IAF's first special operations aircraft C-130J was ready to take off from the Hindon airbase on the outskirts of New Delhi with 39 National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) men and 3.5 tonne of relief. The aircraft landed in Kathmandu at 6.18 pm.

The aircraft also carried out reconnaissance to assess the damage caused in the densely populated Kathmandu valley as it flew over Pokhara, which has been cut off due to communication failure. By late evening and night, more specialised Indian teams had reached Kathmandu to offer their expertise in the ravaged zone.

According to a Defence Ministry spokesperson, the C-130J returned at night from Kathmandu with some of the stranded Indians on board. As commercial flights are unlikely to be available to and from Kathmandu over the next few days, the Indian government is deliberating on ways to bring back the stranded Indians.

Earlier, the entire Indian government machinery was pressed into action with Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar assuring Nepal that all their resources were deployed in what could become one of the biggest relief operations in a neighbouring country.

IAF's super heavy transporter C-17, which had recently completed the Yemen rescue operations, airlifted the Rapid Reaction Aero Medical Team and other material like food, water and medicines. An IL-76 transporter reached Nepal from Bathinda but the two Mi-17 helicopters that took off from Gorakhpur had to return due to inclement weather.

Even an Indian Army team, currently on an expedition to Mount Everest, contributed to relief and rescue as the region was swept by avalanches triggered by the earthquake. All the Indian expedition members are reported to be safe.

Modi tweeted about the earthquake within minutes of the tremors, soon after he completed a ride in the Capital's Metro rail service.

Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar said the prime minister's instructions were to get cracking on relief and rescue operations.

Noting that several Indians, many of them tourists, were stranded in Nepal, Jaishankar said, "There was no count available as our citizens contact the embassy only in case of any need." He requested the relatives of these persons to contact either the External Affairs Ministry's or the embassy's control room for help.

Heavy damage

To coordinate the relief and rescue operations, a control room has been set up in the External Affairs Ministry and one in the Indian embassy in Kathmandu to provide all help and information round the clock.

Jaishankar acknowledged that the damage in and around Kathmandu was heavy and carrying out relief and rescue operations was proving to be difficult as communication channels were not working.

"The situation in Nepal is difficult. Internet is down, television isn't working and parts of Kathmandu have no electricity. So people will have to find a way to connect with us; after that we will provide full assistance," he promised.
</text>