<url>
http://www.montgomeryadvertiser.com/story/news/world/2015/04/25/nepal-earthquake/26354073/
</url>

<date>
20150425
</date>

<headline>
More than 1,800 dead as magnitude-7.8 quake rocks Nepal
</headline>

<text>
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The death toll is in the thousands following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake in Nepal. The quake also sparked an avalanche at Mount Everest. Rescue workers continue to search for missing and trapped people. Wochit

Nepalese people walk past collapsed buildings at Lalitpur, on the outskirts of Katmandu, on April 25, 2015, after a powerful magnitude-7.8 earthquake struck Nepal. (Photo: Prakash Mathema, AFP/Getty Images)

A powerful earthquake — the country's worst in 80 years — rocked mountainous Nepal on Saturday, killing more than 1,800 people and leveling buildings and centuries-old temples. Dozens if not hundreds remained trapped under mounds of rubble.

Hospitals in the capital of Katmandu were so crowded that many of the injured were treated outside in the open, according to local media. The magnitude-7.8 quake, which shook a wide swath of northern India, Bangladesh, Tibet and Pakistan, also triggered avalanches in the Himalayas, killing at least 10 people on Mount Everest.

Nepal police said at least 1,865 people were killed. Given the scale of the destruction, the death toll was expected to rise. An emergency Cabinet meeting designated 29 districts as crisis zones, the Home Affairs Ministry said.

Tens of thousands of people, fearful of aftershocks bringing down more buildings, gathered outside during the night.

"My entire neighborhood is still in shock," said Chiranjibi Gurung in Katmandu. "My children who were inside the houses at the time of the earthquake are scared to go inside now even at this time of the night."

Around 180 bodies were pulled from the ruins of the nine-story Dharhara Tower in the center of the capital, China's official Xinhua News Agency reports. It said about 200 were feared trapped in the rubble of the tower in the city's historic Basantapur Durbar Square.

"We had heard the earthquake stories from our ancestors and how I remember my grandparents telling me about the devastation of the 1934 earthquake and how it uprooted the Dharahara Tower then," said Sabita Lal of Katmandu. "I saw the same thing happen today to the tower. It was a massive one."

Another Katmandu resident, Deepen Bista, whose house was damaged, said the big jolt "was longer than we had experienced before, it lasted a little more than a minute." The downtown area of the capital — with old houses and narrow lanes — was hardest hit, he said.

City hospitals were quickly overwhelmed. Dozens were gathered in the parking lot of Norvic International Hospital, where thin mattresses were spread on the ground for patients rushed outside, some wearing hospital pajamas. A woman with a bandage on her head sat in a set of chairs pulled from the hospital waiting room. Doctors and nurses had hooked up some patients to IV drips in the parking lot, or were giving people oxygen.

The quake struck before noon local time about 50 miles northwest of Katmandu in an area that the U.S. Geological Survey calls one of the most seismically hazardous regions on Earth. It is at the spot where the India plate collides with the Eurasia plate in a process that created the towering Himalayas.

The quake, which was felt as far away as Lahore in Pakistan, Lhasa in Tibet, and Dhaka, Bangladesh, was followed by about 15 aftershocks, including one registered at a magnitude of 6.6. At least 34 were killed in India, 12 in Tibet and two in Bangladesh. Two Chinese citizens died on the Nepal-China border.

Finance Minister Ram Sharan Mahat said on Twitter that the quake had destroyed about 90% of about 1,000 homes and huts in the Laprak and Barpak villages near the epicenter.

The humanitarian aid group Oxfam said it was sending a team of technical experts from Britain to provide clean water, sanitation and emergency food supplies. "Communication is currently very difficult," said Cecilia Keizer, Oxfam country director in Nepal. "Telephone lines are down, and the electricity has been cut off, making charging mobile phones difficult. The water is also cut off."

Keizer said the quake had destroyed many of Katmandu's old houses and that at least one large apartment block had collapsed. "People are gathered in the thousands in open spaces and are scared, as there have been several aftershocks," she said.

In Winchester, Va., Kriti Hada, a 20-year-old nursing student from Nepal who is attending Shenandoah University, said her sister in Nepal managed to get through by phone.

Although she, her mother and another sister were unhurt, they were frightened by the intensity and duration of the aftershocks, which are continuing, Hada told USA TODAY.

Hada said her relatives, like hundreds of others who survived the initial quake, were remaining outside until the seismic activity ceases. "We have very limited open spaces and they are surrounded by tall buildings that are also fragile," Hada said.

Numerous countries around the world pledged immediate aid and supplies. The U.S. Mission in Nepal released an initial $1 million for immediate assistance. The embassy also said a U.S. search-and-rescue team is preparing to fly to Nepal. In addition, the U.S. Agency for International Development was sending a disaster assistance response team. India, Pakistan, China, France and Britain also said they would assist in the relief effort.

Within hours, an Indian Air Force C-130 landed at at Katmandu's airport with 39 disaster relief workers and 3.5 metric tons of supplies, according to a spokesman for the Ministry of Defense.

People free a man from the rubble of a destroyed building in Kathmandu on April 25. (Photo: Narendra Shrestha, European Pressphoto Agency)

Several buildings collapsed in the center of the capital, the ancient Old Kathmandu, including centuries-old temples and towers. Among them was the Dharahara Tower, one of Katmandu's landmarks built by Nepal's royal rulers in the 1800s and a UNESCO-recognized historical monument. It was reduced to rubble and there were reports of people trapped underneath. The Katmandu Valley is densely populated with nearly 2.5 million people, and the quality of buildings is often poor.

Dhany Osman, an editor with The Straits Times of Singapore said he was at Katmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport when the quake struck.

"As bits of the ceiling began to fall, passengers who were waiting for their flights began to panic and started running out of the terminal, with some tripping over each other," he wrote. "Despite the nearest exit door being just 10 (yards) away, a group of Nepali men smashed open a glass panel and climbed out of it. I tried telling people around me to calm down but they kept shoving each other to get out."

Although the extent of the damage and the scale of the disaster are yet to be ascertained, the quake will likely put a huge strain on the resources of this poor country best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world. The economy of Nepal, a nation of 27.8 million people, is heavily dependent on tourism, principally trekking and Himalayan mountain-climbing.

Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal | 0:57 The helicopter went missing near Charikot, Nepal, which was one of the areas hit hardest by the most recent earthquake. Video provided by Newsy Newslook 1 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal | 1:45 A helicopter from Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 469 lost contact with units on the ground Tuesday. One day earlier, on May 11, the squadron described its mission to deliver food and supplies to the rural areas of Nepal. VPC 2 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith | 1:34 A man in Nepal, who lost his son and mother-in-law in the April 25 quake, said his faith is shaken after another major earthquake shook his country. VPC 3 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL 'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera | 1:13 A magnitude 7.3 earthquake shook the ground in Nepal just weeks after another huge quake killed more than 8,000 people. Photographers traveling with a Delaware medical team for relief efforts captured the second quake on camera. 4 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rattled by second major earthquake | 1:13 For the second time in a matter of weeks, a earthquake with a magnitude greater that 7 hit Nepal. It triggered landslides and toppled buildings but most likely won't be as deadly as the April 25 earthquake that killed more than 8,000 people. Wochit 5 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake | 0:31 People gather in the streets of Nepal after a second major earthquake struck the country. It happened just weeks after the first quake killed thousands. VPC 6 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal | 0:43 A major earthquake hit Nepal on Tuesday, just weeks after an earthquake left thousands dead. Some buildings collapsed. At least 4 people are dead. (May 12) AP 7 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help | 1:28 A medical team from Delaware arrived in Nepal to help with disaster relief efforts following a massive earthquake that killed thousands. Each team member brought roughly 100 pounds of medical supplies with them. VPC 8 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal | 0:41 Helicopters from the U.S. have begun a mission to fly much-needed supplies to communities in Nepal devastated by a 7.8 magnitude earthquake responsible for the death of thousands. (May 4) AP 9 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage | 1:57 Drone footage shot on Friday showed the widespread devastation caused by last weekend's earthquake in Nepal. (May 1) AP 10 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal | 0:54 Rescuers in Kathmandu, Nepal, pulled a teenage boy alive from the rubble of a collapsed building Thursday. The boy had been trapped since the earthquake on Saturday. (April 30) AP 11 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble | 1:11 A rescue team pulled a man from the rubble of a collapsed building in Kathmandu more than three days after the deadly earthquake hit Nepal. The survivor said he had given up all hope of rescue but kept banging on the rubble, which buried him. (Apr AP 12 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square | 2:07 A tourist in Bhaktapur, a short distance from Kathmandu, caught on camera the moment Saturday's devastating earthquake hit the city causing thousands of deaths and widespread damage. (April 30) AP 13 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal | 2:17 Drone footage captured by CNN shows the level of destruction in earthquake-ravaged Kathmandu, Nepal. Time 14 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest | 0:53 The number of fatalities on Mount Everest from Nepal's devastating earthquake on Saturday has climbed to 19. Injured climbers were taken out from base camp by helicopter for treatment. (April 30) AP 15 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake | 1:26 Videos taken from a drone on Monday showed the extent of the devastation in the capital Kathmandu, caused by Saturday's quake. (April 28) AP 16 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal | 1:11 Nepalese rescue helicopters continued to bring out the injured from remote areas in Nepal following last week's earthquake. AP 17 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal | 0:47 U.S. relief supplies arrived in Nepal as the country continues to deal with a devastating earthquake that killed more than 5,000 people. (April 29) AP 18 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal | 1:23 Joanne Long was 10 miles from the epicenter of Nepal's massive earthquake when it hit. Her family back in Texas has been worried sick after not hearing from her for days, but that may have just changed. VPC 19 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy | 1:23 A mountain guide trapped on Mount Everest talks about the pain of losing one of his team in the deadly avalanche triggered by the earthquake in Nepal. Jen Markham (@jenmarkham) has more. Buzz60 20 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest | 1:57 Mariusz Malkwoski was set to climb Mount Everest when a devastating earthquake hit Nepal. Malkowski, who was not injured, says he considers himself extremely lucky. (April 28) AP 21 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors | 1:32 A Chinese rescue team on Tuesday searched for survivors buried under rubble in the Gongabo district of the Nepalese capital Kathmandu. (April 28) AP 22 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset | 0:50 Rescuers are still at work in Kathmandu as the sun sets on the third day after a deadly earthquake struck the country. Duration: 00:51 Video provided by AFP Newslook 23 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making | 1:07 Watch a visual explaination of the Nepal earthquake at Denver's Museum of Nature and Science. VPC 24 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage | 1:34 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake rose to 3,218 on Monday, two days after the massive quake ripped across this Himalayan nation, leaving tens of thousands shell-shocked and sleeping in streets. (April 27) AP 25 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal | 1:09 Surveillance footage shows the moment when the 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal. Video provided by AFP AFP 26 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake | 0:44 The Nepalese Army on Monday released aerial shots it filmed on Sunday of the devastation caused by the earthquake that struck over the weekend. (April 27) AP 27 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble | 0:40 Turkish rescue workers in Katmandu, Nepal pulled a man alive April 27, 2015, from the rubble of a destroyed building on Monday. The rescue comes two days a massive earthquake killed more than three-thousand. AP 28 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal | 0:47 The death toll from Nepal's earthquake soared past 3,300 Monday. Rescue workers are still struggling to reach vulnerable mountain villages two days after the initial quake. (April 27) AP 29 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors | 0:33 Powerful aftershocks rocked Nepal Sunday, panicking survivors of a quake that killed more than 2,500, as rescuers dug through rubble in the devastated capital Kathmandu. Video provided by AFP AFP 30 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal | 0:58 A powerful, 7.8-magnitude earthquake shook Nepal's capital and the densely populated Kathmandu Valley before noon Saturday, collapsing houses and leveling centuries-old temples in the worst temblor in the Himalayan nation in over 80 years. (April 25) AP 31 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake | 1:46 Eve Girawong was climbing Mount Everest with Seattle-based Madison Mountaineering when she was killed by an avalanche. It was triggered by a massive earthquake that killed thousands of others in Nepal. VPC 32 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal | 1:14 Rescue workers in Kathmandu pulled a man from a badly damaged building on Sunday, a day after a powerful earthquake struck Nepal, leaving more than 1,900 people dead. A magnitude 6.7 aftershock jolted Kathmandu Sunday morning, (April 26) AP 33 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake | 1:27 The death toll continues to rise after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake hit Nepal on Saturday. The quake destroyed homes and centuries-old temples. Neighboring countries also felt shocks and reported casualties. Wochit 34 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India | 0:43 Officials say at least 34 people have been killed and dozens more injured in India after a powerful earthquake struck neighboring Nepal on Saturday. (April 25) AP 35 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake | 0:45 Dozens of students are among those injured in northeastern India as a result of the massive earthquake that hit the region include Nepal, China and Bangladesh. Video provided by AFP AFP 36 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest | 1:11 The death toll is in the thousands following a magnitude-7.8 earthquake in Nepal. The quake also sparked an avalanche at Mount Everest. Rescue workers continue to search for missing and trapped people. Wochit 37 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts | 0:41 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. Wochit 38 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing | 1:57 A magnitude-6.7 aftershock shook Nepal's Kathmandu region a day after thousands of people were killed in the area's worst earthquake in decades. AP 39 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake | 1:24 A day after a massive Himalayan earthquake killed more than 2,200 people, rescue efforts continued for trapped victims as panicked tourists looked to flee. (April 26) AP 40 of 41 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SECOND QUAKE ROCKS NEPAL Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken | 1:13 A powerful earthquake struck Nepal Saturday, killing at least 1,180 people and triggering a deadly avalanche on Mount Everest. It was the worst quake to hit Nepal in decades. (April 25) AP 41 of 41 Last VideoNext Video US helicopter goes missing while aiding Nepal

Marines describe earthquake relief mission in Nepal

Second quake strikes Nepal, shakes citizens faith

'Scary' second Nepal earthquake caught on camera

Nepal rattled by second major earthquake

See the aftermath from Nepal's second major earthquake

Raw: Second strong earthquake shakes Nepal

Delaware medical team lands in Nepal, ready to help

Raw: US choppers fly relief over Nepal

Raw: Drone flyover reveals Nepal damage

Raw: Teenage Boy Rescued in Nepal

Raw: Nepal man alive after 82 hours in rubble

Raw: Moment Nepal quake strikes ancient square

Drone footage of Kathmandu, Nepal

Raw: Death toll climbs on Mount Everest

Raw: Drone footage of aftermath of earthquake

Raw: More survivors rescued in Nepal

Raw: US relief supplies arrive in Nepal

Family finds hope after sister goes missing in Nepal

Mount Everest avalanche survivor describes tragedy

NJ man survives earthquake at Mt. Everest

Raw: Chinese team looks for Nepal survivors

Rescuers still at work in Kathmandu at sunset

Nepal earthquake was millions of years in the making

Raw: Drone view of Nepal quake damage

CCTV footage of the moment when quake hit Nepal

Raw: Homes in ruins after deadly Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from Nepal rubble

Raw: 3,300 Known Dead in Nepal

Rescue teams dig for Nepal quake survivors

Raw: Powerful earthquake rocks Nepal

American woman killed on Everest after Nepal quake

Raw: Man rescued from building in Nepal

Nepal rocked by magnitude-7.8 earthquake

Raw: Nepal quake kills dozens in India

Dozens of students injured in India following Nepal quake

Nepal earthquake sparks avalanche at Mount Everest

Powerful aftershock rattles Nepal amid quake recovery efforts

Aftershocks rock Nepal as rescue efforts are in full swing

Residents fear aftershocks of Nepal quake

Nepal quake: Hundreds dead, Everest shaken

A Swedish woman, Jenny Adhikari, who lives in Nepal, told the Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet that she was riding a bus in the town of Melamchi when the earth began to move.

"A huge stone crashed only about 20 (yards) from the bus," she was quoted as saying. "All the houses around me have tumbled down. I think there are lot of people who have died," she told the newspaper by telephone. Melamchi is about 30 miles northeast of Kathmandu.

Although located on a major plate boundary with a history of large- to great-sized earthquakes, large earthquakes in this area are rare in the documented historical era, the USGS reports. Over the past century, just four events of magnitude 6.0 or larger have occurred within about 150 miles of Saturday's earthquake.

An earthquake's power increases by 10 times with each increase in the number of its scale. This means Saturday's earthquake — the same magnitude as the one that hit San Francisco in 1906 — was 16 times more powerful than the 7.0 quake that devastated Haiti in 2010.

Contributing: Naila Inayat in Lahore, Pakistan; Doyle Rice, McLean, Va.; Donna Leinwand Leger in Washington, D.C.; the Associated Press

Read or Share this story: http://usat.ly/1Gs4Dre
</text>