<url>
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/south-asia/Everest-toll-22-copters-airlift-injured/articleshow/47063436.cms
</url>

<date>
20150426
</date>

<headline>
Everest toll 22, copters airlift injured
</headline>

<text>
MOUNT EVEREST: Helicopters airlifted injured climbers off Mount Everest on Sunday after a devastating avalanche, triggered by the quake, killed at least 22 people, an AFP team at the scene reported.At least six helicopters landed at the base camp in Nepal, the agency's Kathmandu bureau chief Ammu Kannampilly reported after weather conditions improved overnight. "People being stretchered out as choppers land — half a dozen this morning," Kannampilly said in a text message.An Indian Army team, training at the base camp when Saturday's temblor hit, helped pull out the bodies of 19 foreign climbers. Survivors warned that dozens of people may still be missing and were almost certainly dead in what is now the worst tragedy at Everest. The avalanche struck near one of the famed mountain's most dangerous spots, between the Khumbu Icefall and the base camp.Pictures taken by AFP showed an enormous cloud of snow and debris cascading down the mountain as survivors recalled the horrifying moment that disaster struck on Saturday."I ran and it just flattened me. I tried to get up and it flattened me again," Singapore-based marine biologist George Foulsham told AFP at base camp."I couldn't breathe, I thought I was dead. When I finally stood up, I couldn't believe it passed me over and I was almost untouched."Ang Tshering Sherpa, president of the Nepal mountaineering association, said the nationalities of those killed was unclear, "but most of them would be foreigners". Sherpa said there were more than 800 people at different places when the avalanche, triggered by a massive earthquake, struck on Saturday.Fearful climbers again reported smaller avalanches on the mountain, at camp one above base camp, on Sunday after a 6.7-magnitude aftershock hit Nepal around lunchtime."Aftershock @ 1pm! Horrible here in camp 1. Avalanches on 3 sides. C1 a tiny island. We worry about icefall team below.. Alive?" UK-based climber Daniel Mazur tweeted.As the first stunned survivors of the avalanche reached Kathmandu, they said that dozens of people may still be missing and were almost certainly dead."The snow swept away many tents and people,'' said Gyelu Sherpa, a sunburned guide among the first group of 15 injured survivors to reach Kathmandu.Bhim Bahadur Khatri, 35, a cook and a Sherpa, was preparing food in a meal tent when the avalanche struck."We all rushed out to the open and the next moment a huge wall of snow just piled on me,'' he said in a brief airport interview. agenciesThe first group of survivors from the avalanche were flown to Kathmandu on Sunday and taken to hospitals. None appeared to have life-threatening injuries.
</text>